

===== PAGE 1 =====

TALES FROM THE LONE-LANDS
TALES FROM THE LONE-LANDS
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 2 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 3 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 4 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 5 =====

The Lord of the Rings, The One Ring, Middle-earth, and the characters, items, events and 
places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC and 
are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees.
© 2023 Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC & Sophisticated Games Ltd
First published in 2023 by Fria Ligan AB
Text and illustrations © 2023 Fria Ligan AB
ISBN
978-91-89765-13-9
PRINT
Standart Impressa UAB
LEAD WRITER
Gareth Hanrahan
EDITORS
Francesco Nepitello, Lorenzo Perassi,  
Tomas Härenstam, Nils Karlén
COVER ART
Antonio De Luca
OTHER ART
Antonio De Luca, Jan Pospíšil,  
Federica Costantini
GRAPHIC DESIGN
Christian Granath,  
Niklas Brandt,  
Dan Algstrand
LAYOUT
Dan Algstrand
MAPS
Francesco Mattioli,  
Niklas Brandt
PROOFREADING
Brandon Bowling,  
Gabriele Quaglia
LINE MANAGER
Francesco Nepitello 
PROJECT MANAGER
Tomas Härenstam
BRAND MANAGER
Robert Hyde –  
Sophisticated Games
EVENT MANAGER
Anna Westerling
PR MANAGER
Boel Bermann
STREAMING
Doug Shute
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 6 =====

CONTENTS
 
Introduction 4
OVERVIEW 4
The Lone- lands of Eriador 5
The Hill of Fear 5
A HEROIC LINEAGE 6
A Fellowship,  
Not a Backup Crew 6
EXAMPLE ANCESTORS 6
Tarandis, the Knight of Arnor 6
Jack of Bree 7
Dvalin, Dwarf in Exile 7
The Hill and the Ancestor 7
A Troll- hole,  
if Ever There Was One 9
Jari the Wanderer 10
PART 1: BY THE SIGN  
OF THE PRANCING PONY 11
Sitting by the Fire 11
PART 2: THE JOURNEY  
TO THE TROLL- VALE 13
The Journey North 13
PART 3: THE HIDDEN VALLEY 16
Background 16
Locations 17
Schemes and Trouble 22
PART 4: HOMEWARD BOUND 23
 
Messing About in Boats 25
A Partial Tale of Years 26
PART 1: THE SEER AND THE SAILORS 27
The Queen’s Hall 28
Meeting Aglaen 29
The Laughing Sailor 29
The Queen’s Command 30
PART 2: VOYAGE INTO THE SUNSET 30
Merry Mariners 31
Dreams 32
The Gulf of Lune 32
The Northern Seas 32
Himling and the Western Isles 32
The Unnatural Storm 33
PART 3: THE HAUNTED ISLE 33
Background 33
Locations 34
Schemes and Trouble 39
PART 4: HOMEWARD BOUND 41
Seeking Amon Guruthos 41
A Last Dream 41
Kings of  
Little Kingdoms 43
The False Wizard 44
PART 1: A MOTHER’S PLEA 45
The Mystery of Gandalf 45
PART 2: FOLLOWING THE TRAIL 45
PART 3: THE HOUSE OF FARRELL 46
An Audience with Farrell 46
A Night at Farrell’s House 47
Farrell Awakes 48
PART 4: THE RUINED TOWER 49
Background 49
Locations 49
Schemes and Trouble 54
PART 5: HOMEWARD BOUND 55
1
 2
 3
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 7 =====

CONTENTS
Not To Strike  
Without Need 57
The Outlaw and the Rangers 58
PART 1: JON- A-LEAPING 59
The Prisoner 59
PART 2: JOURNEY TO THARBAD 60
Meeting Orothel 60
Entering Tharbad 63
PART 3: AN AUDIENCE WITH GURNOW 63
Jon’s Fate 64
PART 4: THE FORTRESS  
OF GARTH TAURON 64
Background 65
Locations 65
Schemes and Troubles 68
PART 5: THE RANGER SPY 68
Finding the Letter 68
Return to Orothel 69
PART 6: THE HUNT FOR DÉOR 70
The Ambush 70
PART 7: HOMEWARD BOUND 71
Wonder of  
the Northern World 73
PART 1: FLOKI’S ERRAND 74
The Shadow of the Past 75
The Letter 75
PART 2: THE VALE OF GOLD 76
Flonar’s Hall 76
Flonar’s Body 76
The Goblins 76
Reading the Riddle 77
PART 3: CHASING THE ORCS 78
The Orc- host 78
Hunting the Orcs 78
Catching Up With Hultmar 79
Rescuing the Dwarves 79
A Grisly Homecoming 79
PART 4: COUNCIL UNDER   
THE MOUNTAINS 80
Floki’s Grief 80
The Halls of the Dwarves 80
The Council Begins 82
PART 5: RATH SEREG 84
Background 85
Locations 85
Schemes and Trouble 88
PART 6: HOMEWARD BOUND 89
The Quest  
of Amon Guruthos 91
Planning the Expedition 93
PART 1: COLD WELCOME 93
Meeting Jagat 93
A Council with Egel 94
PART 2: THE WASTELAND 94
Across the Ice 94
PART 3: SENNAS GAER 96
The Ruined Castle 98
Inside the Cottage 98
The Evening Feast 99
Opening the Way 101
PART 4: AMON GURUTHOS 102
Background 102
Locations 103
Schemes and Trouble 109
PART 5: HOMEWARD BOUND 112
 
Index 113
4
 5
 6
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 8 =====

INTRODUCTION
4
INTRODUCTION
“The quest has failed, Sam. Even if we get out of here, we can’t escape. 
Only Elves can escape. Away, away, out of Middle- earth, far away 
over the Sea. If even that is wide enough to keep the Shadow out.”
“No, not everything, Mr. Frodo. And it hasn’t failed, not yet.”
ales from the Lone- lands contains six adventures set 
in the Lone- lands of north- western Middle- earth. 
This volume is intended for Lore masters, who 
can weave the material presented among these 
pages into their current campaigns. Players should refrain 
from reading to avoid spoiling their experience.
Each adventure contains a number of sequential parts, 
as well as a Landmark of some sort. These Landmarks 
conform to the format of presentation outlined on page 
221 of The One Ring. As with any roleplaying game adventure, 
it’s entirely possible — even likely! — that the players will 
come up with some unexpected plan or take some action 
that the text has not anticipated. The Lore master should use 
the material in this volume as suggestions, guidelines and 
inspiration, not a set script. The game always takes prece -
dence over both the text as presented and the Tolkien canon.
Overview
All adventures presented in this volume can be played indi -
vidually, but are connected to a larger tale.
A Troll- hole, if Ever There Was One  and Kings of Little King -
doms are both relatively self- contained, but still hint at the 
growing danger.
Messing About in Boats  gives one of the Player- heroes in 
the Company an ancient lineage, a magical weapon — and 
a duty to fight the Shadow.
Not to Strike Without Need and Wonder of the Northern World 
follow the slow infiltration of spies from Mordor.
Finally, The Quest of Amon Guruthos challenges the heroes 
to battle an ancient evil, and face the Shadow of Death 
beneath the Hill of Fear.
While the adventures are presented in a suggested order 
of play, they can be shuffled around somewhat. Messing About 
in Boats includes more enchantment and magical strangeness 
than most with its tale of ghosts, ancient heroes and prophe-
cies. Depending on the tastes of the playing group, the Lore-
master may choose to run this earlier in the campaign (to give 
the players a hint of Middle- earth’s wonder and epic history) 
or later (to mark a shift from relatively mundane tales of 
Outlaws and Trolls to those of magic and terror). Not to Strike 
Without Need leads into Wonder of the Northern World, which in 
turn leads into The Quest of Amon Guruthos, but there’s space 
between these tales to intersperse other adventures if desired.
All adventures assume that the time frame is the same as 
the one in The One Ring — the years around 2965.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 9 =====

INTRODUCTION
5
The Lone- lands of Eriador
The dark lord lifts his hand
Over dead sea and withered land.
Wide are the lands of the old North- kingdom, where the 
sea- wind howls over stony hills and bends the grasses of the 
empty plains. It plays amid the ruins of cities and the barrows 
of kings, and whistles in the mountaintops of the east. Ask the 
wind for tidings, maybe, for you will seldom meet travellers 
in the Lone- lands of Eriador.
But if you know where to look — under the hills and in 
hidden valleys, along the old roads and the secret refuges, 
the guarded lands of Shire and Bree — then there are still 
dwellers in the Lone- lands west of the mountains, east of 
the sea. They are few in number, for these are wounded 
lands, ravaged by forgotten wars and plague, beset by foes 
in days of old, but for the most part they are friendly folk. 
Ask them for tales, and they have tales aplenty — merry 
tales of foolery and misadventure, tales of ancient kings 
and heroes, tales of adventure in far- off lands. A fire may 
warm a traveller’s cold feet, but it’s story and song shared 
among friends that warms the heart. Find those who yet 
dwell in the Lone- lands, and you will hear tales to stave off 
the dread of night.
Wide are the lands, too, between Eriador and Mordor, 
where the Shadows lie, and while vague rumour has come 
up the Greenway of war in far- off Gondor, the folk of Eri -
ador still sleep untroubled, believing the Enemy pays no 
heed to them.
They are wrong. Agents of Mordor are moving, creeping 
north to stir up sleeping evils and prepare the land for the 
war to come. A dark time is coming, a final war to put all the 
realms of the Free Peoples under the Shadow and plunge 
the land into everlasting despair. And these tales of Eriador, 
too, are part of the one great tale of desperate hope: the tale 
that began at the Beginning, the tale of Beren and Lúthien, 
of Turin and Eärendil, of Elendil and Gil- Galad… the tale of 
Middle- earth, the tale of Arda Marred.
The Hill of Fear
Few tales speak of the blighted place that is the Hill of Fear. It 
lies far in the north, beyond Carn Dûm, and there the Witch- 
king of Angmar oversaw terrible rites to worship the darkness 
— but the Witch- king did not raise it. It is older than him; it 
was cursed before the fathers of the fathers of Men came to 
this part of the world. Long long ago, Morgoth put his evil 
into the living land of Middle- earth, seeking to control all 
creation, and the Hill of Fear rose like a cancerous growth 
from the earth. The Elves of old called it Amon Guruthos, 
“The Mountain of the Shadow of Death,” for in its presence 
even some of the Firstborn felt the fear of mortality.
It is certainly not the only such malicious place in 
Middle- earth — there are other haunted regions like the 
vale of the Withywindle, or the haunted wood of Eryn Vorn, 
or the Dead Marshes on the border of Mordor — but the 
Hill has a baleful influence over those who dwell nearby. It 
haunts their dreams and draws them into the ruinous wor -
ship of the dark.
Heroes have tried and failed to destroy the darkness 
beneath Amon Guruthos. Many have entered those dark 
halls; some fled, broken by the horrors below. Others never 
returned.
The power of the Hill of Fear waxes and wanes over time, 
and it can be awoken with rites and sacrifices. The Hill’s 
malign influence faded during the days of the Sea- kings of 
old, until the Witch- king of Angmar called up its power once 
more. Soon, the folk of Rhudaur turned their faces from the 
west and were corrupted by the Shadow.
After the defeat of Angmar, the Hill fell back into its sul-
len slumber. Monsters still lurked in the caves and tunnels 
beneath its dark slopes, but it no longer weighed so heavily 
on the minds of those nearby — though few now dwell in the 
wild lands beyond the North Downs. Now, stirred by agents of 
Mordor, the power of the Hill of Fear grows again…
DREAMING OF THE HILL
The malign power of the Hill of Fear reaches far 
across the land. If any of the heroes gain Shadow 
points through events connected to the Hill or 
those it has touched, then they begin to dream 
of the Hill.
In the dreams, the Hill rises like a great dark 
wave, looming over the land, rising above the 
lights of Bree or the Shire or Lond Daer or Lin -
don, threatening to snuff them out with its shadow. 
Such dreams haunt the unlucky character, making 
their nights restless and bitter, until the power of 
the Hill is broken.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 10 =====

INTRODUCTION
6
A Heroic Lineage
These adventures give one of the Player- heroes in the Com -
pany a possible heroic lineage, an ancestry harkening back to 
a line of heroes and champions. This character is referred to 
as the Heir, and must be selected by the Lore master.
The adventure Messing Around in Boats gives the chosen 
Heir a chance to discover their lineage and find an ancestral 
weapon of great power; in The Quest of Amon Guruthos, the char-
acter must finish a quest undertaken long ago by their ancestor.
The Lore master must determine the characteristics of 
the ancestor and a tale to fit the chosen Player- hero. The 
best candidate for the Heir is a Man of Bree or a Ranger; a 
Barding or other adventurer from Wilderland is also possi -
ble. An Elf is unlikely; a Dwarf can work, while a Hobbit is a 
stretch, so to speak.
If the Player- hero is a Ranger, then the ancestor might 
be a Númenórean or a warrior of the lost kingdom of Arnor. 
If the Player- hero is a Breelander, then the ancestor might 
equally be a warrior of Arnor, or a champion of the folk who 
dwelt in Eriador before the kings came out of the sea.
The ancestor might have lived any time during the late 
Second Age or up until the year 1974 of the Third Age, at any 
point during the long struggle against the Shadow.
A Fellowship,  
Not a Backup Crew
The Lore master should avoid centring the whole campaign 
around the Heir. The real tale is how the Company explores 
the Lone- lands, discovers the creeping influence of the 
Enemy, and eventually defeats the malign Hill of Fear, depriv-
ing Sauron of a weapon he might otherwise turn against the 
Free People of Middle- earth. While the tale of the Heir does 
give the Player- heroes insight and a weapon against the Hill, 
do not elevate the Heir above the other characters. Indeed, 
the best approach is to pick a character who is ill- suited for 
the task, and who must rely on their companions for guid -
ance and aid.
Alternatively, one of the Player- heroes could be descended 
not from the hero, but from a companion of theirs who also 
perished on the Isle of the Mother — giving them a connec -
tion to the Hero of old, but not an unquestionable claim.
If you prefer a more egalitarian (one might say Hobbitish) 
approach, you can drop the subplot of the Heir completely 
by adjusting the events of Messing About In Boats (see the box 
on page 26) without affecting the rest of the adventures.
Example Ancestors
The following descriptions of ancestors can be adapted to 
conform to the characteristics of the Player- hero that has 
been chosen as the Heir, or as examples of how an ancestor 
could be built from scratch.
Their presentation conforms to the format outlined on 
page 221 of The One Ring for Landmarks:
 ♦ A Rumour is the piece of information that the Player- 
heroes may pick up while adventuring or during the 
Fellowship Phase. It might contain a mix of true and 
false information, filtered through local prejudices, 
superstitions, etc.
 ♦ Further information available to Player- heroes who 
research the ancestor is presented as Old Lore, and 
can be gained while adventuring or during the Fellow-
ship Phase. Generally, Old Lore has more precise and 
truthful information than what is contained under the 
Rumour heading.
Tarandis, the Knight of Arnor
RUMOUR
“Oh, once there was a king who lived in a golden palace by a lake, 
and many knights served him, and the greatest of these knights was 
Tarandis. Elven- fair she was, maiden of polished steel, and with her 
companions she went on errantry across the lands, fighting Trolls 
and Dragons and such things. Then the king of Angmar arose, and 
all the land fell under shadow. In those days, Tarandis was like a 
blazing beacon all along the hills; wherever the day was darkest 
and the foes thickest, she was there. Her star fell in the north, the 
stories say, but I’ve heard that she’ll come back when she’s needed.”
OLD LORE
“Tarandis was a knight of Arthedain, in the waning days of the 
North- kingdom during the wars against Angmar. She was in the 
service of King Aravel, whose grandson Arvedui was the last ruler 
of the North- kingdom.”
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 11 =====

INTRODUCTION
7
Jack of Bree
RUMOUR
“Once upon a time, there were three evil giants, and they lived in a 
castle beyond the north wind. Now, being giants, the castle wasn’t 
big enough for all of them, so they made a wager, and the wager 
was this; whichever giant did the most evil would inherit the castle.
The first giant was as tall as a tree, and he went down to Bree, 
and stood astride the Road. And whenever anyone came by, he’d 
reach down and gobble them up. And he attracted many outlaws 
and thieves to his side, for they also attacked travellers on the road, 
and they were glad to have a giant with them.
Now, in Bree- land there lived a lad called Jack, and he was the 
pot- boy at the Pony (don’t you know the Pony’s older than Bree-  
hill?), and when he heard of this giant he took up his axe and he 
went a- hunting. When he met the giant, the giant bent down to 
eat him, and Jack said, “don’t kill me! I’ll be one of your outlaws, 
too. In fact, I’ve the keenest eyes of anyone you’ll ever meet, so if 
you pick me up and put me on your shoulder, I’ll be your lookout 
and find more people to rob.” Excited by the prospect of doing even 
more mischief, the giant agreed. He picked Jack up and put the boy 
on his shoulder, right next to his neck — and then out came Jack’s 
axe, right quick, and chop chop chop!”
(The tale goes on to describe how Jack became king of 
the outlaws, and led them in battle against the armies of the 
second giant, who’d become a warlord of the mountains and 
rallied Orcs and Goblins to his side. The third giant, who 
was ‘as tall as a dark hill, and taller than a stormcloud’ claimed 
the castle beyond the north wind, and sent ‘a breath of malice’ 
down to trouble Bree- land. And so Jack set off to slay this 
third giant, but never returned.)
OLD LORE
“Stories often have a grain of truth in them. In the dark years, when 
war and plague beset Eriador, Bree was often left unprotected, and 
unlikely heroes arose to defend it. The ‘three giants’ of the tale are 
symbolic of perils that troubled the north — anarchy, the threat of 
Orcs, and the natural disasters of plague and bad weather.”
Dvalin, Dwarf in Exile
RUMOUR
“Know this: in Khazad- Dûm the honoured dead sleep soundly in 
their stone houses, in the quiet street of the tombs. But one of those 
tombs is empty, for the bones of great Dvalin never came home. Now 
Dvalin was accounted mighty among the Dwarves; Durin’s Shield, 
they named him, for he was ever at the king’s right hand. One day, 
when Khazad- Dûm is ours once more, then his bones will be found 
and laid in their proper place of honour. Until then, Dvalin sleeps 
lightly, a sentry in the valley of death.”
OLD LORE
“The annals of the kings speak of Dvalin. He was among the coun -
sellors of King Burin I, and he argued for a closer friendship with 
the kingdoms of Eriador. The king disagreed, saying ‘let the Dwarves 
keep to their own affairs; let us not become enmeshed in the quarrels 
of Men’. But Dvalin did not relent, arguing that even though the 
Great Enemy was defeated, the Shadow might rise again in another 
form, and that it would be wise to forge strong alliances. In time, 
the king grew wrathful, and exiled Dvalin from the city, and he 
never returned. It is said that when Arthedain fell, King Burin II 
wept, and cursed the folly of his father.”
The Hill and the Ancestor
The ancestor of the chosen Player- hero once swore to defeat 
the evil of the Hill of Fear. Alas, the hero’s courage was not 
equal to the task, and they had to flee before they could van-
quish the darkness beneath the hill. Seeking to strengthen 
their will with the inspiration of ancient tales, they travelled 
to the Isle of the Mother ( page 33), where heroes of old 
lie buried, but they never returned from that place, and their 
oath was left unfulfilled…
But now, as the Shadow rises in the east and old powers 
awaken, there must be a reckoning before the world ends.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 12 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 13 =====

CHAPTER 1
A TROLL- HOLE,  
IF EVER THERE
  
WAS ONE
They searched about, and soon found the marks of Trolls’ stony boots 
going away through the trees. They followed the tracks up the hill, until 
hidden by bushes they came on a big door of stone leading to a cave.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 14 =====

CHAPTER 1
10
n a hole in the ground there lives a Troll.
Not a nice cosy Hobbit- hole, full of comforts and a 
well- stocked pantry. No, this is a Troll- hole, awash in noi-
some things and bones crunching underfoot wherever 
you step. If there is a pantry in this Troll- hole, it is a prison cell.
And it is not just one Troll. It is a whole family of them. 
They came down from the Trollshaws, on the edges of the 
old kingdom of Angmar, and encamped near the Cross-  
roads of Bree. Trolls are not unknown in these parts — Bilbo 
Baggins met no fewer than three of them on the Road, and 
another made trouble in the graveyard in Bree a genera -
tion ago — but a whole family is a danger to Bree and the 
lands around.
Now, Bree is defended in secret by the Rangers of the 
North. Most Bree- folk do not know this, but the Trolls — oh, 
they know it. The stones of the Ettenmoors are stained black 
with Troll- blood spilled by Rangers. This family of Stone- trolls 
may have crept past the Rangers, but they know that they will 
be attacked if they just stomp into Bree and start chomping. 
The head of the family is a clever old Troll- matriarch named 
Nelly Longarms, and she came up with a plan. Instead of the 
Trolls going to the meat, they would lure the meat to them…
Jari the Wanderer
Many Dwarves travel the Road through Bree, on their way 
over the Misty Mountains to Erebor and the Iron Hills. Jari’s 
often seen on the Road, too, but never with a destination 
in mind. He is an exile, banished from the Blue Mountains 
for an unspeakable crime. He survives by his wits — a little 
thievery, a little smith- work, a little treasure- hunting. While 
the Dwarves who know of his crimes shun him, Jari’s practised 
smile and talent with a blacksmith’s hammer have won him 
some casual friends in Bree and other towns along the Road.
Now, a few weeks ago, Jari was poking around some old 
ruins when he had the misfortune to come face to face with 
Nelly Longarms. Instead of eating him, the Troll bargained 
with him — if Jari lured more victims into the clutches of the 
Trolls, she would spare him. Jari agreed, in exchange for his 
life and the pick of the belongings of the victims.
THE FIRST VICTIMS
Just as the Trolls came south, the family of Diarmoc came 
north. They are of a people descended partially from Dun -
lendings and partially from the subjects of Gondor who dwelt 
along the banks of the river Isen. Trouble with the Horse- lords 
of Rohan drove them out, into the unknown lands beyond 
Tharbad. Diarmoc sold what he could, turning his flocks of 
livestock into a few silver pennies, and then he and his family 
— his wife, his sons and daughters, his servants — loaded all 
they possessed into two caravans and set off in search of a safer 
place to dwell. As they came up the Greenway, they chanced 
to meet Jari the Dwarf. Feigning kindness, Jari warned them 
to avoid Bree (“it’s worse than Tharbad, full of thieves and mur-
derers”) and told them of a pleasant vale where they would 
OTHER ROADS TO ADVENTURE
Instead of the default opening scene, there are 
other ways to get your Player- heroes involved in 
the tale of the Troll- hole.
 ♦ Any Patron could tell the heroes of rumours 
of a marauding band of Trolls that mysteri -
ously vanished. Rangers found the signs of 
the monsters’ passage, but they have not 
been seen outside Bree or the Shire. Where 
have these Trolls gone?
 ♦ Heroes searching the barrows and ruins of 
the Lost Kingdom might run into Jari and 
Diarmoc on the road.
 ♦ Maybe Diarmoc isn’t the first victim of the 
Trolls, only the most recent. Other friends 
or kinfolk of the heroes may have vanished, 
and the heroes were sent to find some 
trace of their fate.
 ♦ If Tom Bombadil is the Company’s Patron, 
then Tom might take pity on Diarmoc and 
‘arrange’ for the characters to cross his path 
so they can rescue him.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 15 =====

A TROLL-HOLE, IF EVER THERE W AS ONE
11
be assured of a warm welcome. He lured Diarmoc’s company 
into the long arms of Nelly and her kinfolk.
The Trolls have eaten most of Diarmoc’s servants, but his 
wife Elda and his children Tecca and Sulain are now prisoners 
in the Trolls’ larder. Diarmoc too they spared, for Jari sug -
gested that two liars would work better than one. Nelly made 
Diarmoc swear that he would help the treacherous Dwarf lure 
more victims into the clutches of the Trolls. The longer he 
keeps the Trolls fed, the longer his children survive…
TO BREE!
Now, Diarmoc and Jari are on their way to Bree, in search of 
more meat for the Trolls’ pot. Jari is full of glee, for he has 
already taken Diarmoc’s silver for himself and looks forward 
to more treasure. Diarmoc is full of guilt and woe, but what 
can he do? If he reveals the truth, the Trolls will surely devour 
their hostages…
Part 1: By the Sign 
of the Prancing Pony
The fire is warm, the beer frothy, and the worthies of Bree 
have gathered in the common room of the Pony to sing songs 
and make merry. This night, there are two (or three) groups 
of strangers as well as the locals — a pair of Dwarves, a trio 
of strangers from over the mountains, and (if they are not 
known in Bree) the Player- heroes.
Sitting by the Fire
Arna, Harald and Leif are young merchants from distant Lake- 
town, who came west in search of new trading opportunities; 
they bring wine from Dorwinion and clever trinkets from Dale. 
They are bound for the Blue Mountains, and know little of 
the geography of the lands west of the High Pass, so they 
are eager to talk to local travellers who might know more of 
Eriador. If prompted, they tell a little of recent news from 
Wilderland. There is a strong King in Dale, Bard the Bow -
man, but the good years are passing and there are rumours 
of evil in Mirkwood again.
The Dwarves — Floki and his friend Hornbori — by 
contrast, do not discuss their business except with other 
Dwarves, and then only in secret. If convinced (with a roll 
of PERSUADE , for example), they admit they are on their 
way back from a journey into the lonely lands north of 
Bree, and that they are glad of the firelight and stout hedge 
around Bree — they saw eerie things in the wilderness, and 
though they encountered no perils, they felt there were 
eyes watching them in the night. (Floki plays only a minor 
role in this adventure, but is an important character in a 
later part of the campaign, Wonder of the Northern World , 
page 73 . Consider having the Company encounter Floki 
again a few times between these two adventures, so that the 
Player- heroes will be willing to entertain his request in Won-
der of the Northern World. They might run into him during 
a Fellowship Phase, or meet him again on the Road or in 
the Blue Mountains.)
MEANWHILE, OUTSIDE…
The gates of Bree close at nightfall. Just as the gatekeeper 
is locking up, two travellers approach and ask for entrance. 
They are a mismatched pair — a Dwarf who is all grin and 
beard, and a dark- haired Man who seems bereft of all humour.
The Dwarf bursts into the Pony first, throwing open the 
door and loudly demanding a drink. The Man skulks in like 
a shadow a few minutes later.
If the Player- heroes later question the gatekeeper, he 
reveals that Jari and Diarmoc arrived at Bree together, 
but they entered the inn separately.
ENTER JARI
Shortly after his grand entrance, Jari the Dwarf demands to 
know if there are “any brave souls in the inn who’d like to earn 
their fair share of a great treasure.” He avoids the Dwarves in the 
corner, and instead focuses on the three travellers from Lake- 
town and the Player- heroes.
WE MET IN AN INN
If this is the first session of your The One Ring  cam-
paign, then you could have your fellowship meet 
for the first time here in the Pony.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 16 =====

CHAPTER 1
12
Jari explains:
 ♦ As everyone in Bree knows, he is a noted explorer and 
treasure- finder. Dwarves have a nose for gold, and he’s 
on the trail of buried treasure. One of his distant uncles, 
Great- uncle Bori, buried it long ago to hide it from ban-
dits, and Jari is the only one who knows the secret.
 ♦ The treasure- cache is hidden in a valley to the north of 
Bree, said to be the haunt of Wolves and worse things. 
Jari’s not a fighter — he needs some doughty sword- 
wielding types to guard him while he searches the valley.
 ♦ He offers the heroes a share of the treasure as payment 
if it’s found; he has a little money to pay in advance.
The three Men from Lake- town are not adventurers; they were 
warned not to leave the Road, and so they regretfully turn 
down Jari’s offer, though not without many wistful glances 
and dreams of an easy fortune. The Dwarves in the corner 
glare at Jari, but say nothing.
Jari the Wanderer
A knavish Dwarf, Jari lacks the courage and determination 
of most of his kinfolk, but makes up for it by being loud 
and ebullient, larger than life. He presents everything as 
a grand adventure, an opportunity too good to be missed. 
He is your best friend until he stabs you in the back.
OCCUPATION:  Rogue and accessory to murder
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Flamboyant, Cunning
ENTER DIARMOC
While Jari is talking, Diarmoc slouches into the inn, entering 
quietly and joining the Company like a shadow. The Player- 
heroes may make an AWARENESS  roll to notice when he joins 
the crowd; otherwise, they assume he was always there. Diar -
moc’s role is to convince any hesitating characters to join 
Jari’s scheme. He might:
 ♦ Mutter that this sounds like easy money
 ♦ Vouch that he, too, has heard tell of the Dwarf’s uncle 
and his fabled treasure
 ♦ If any of the Player- heroes are suspicious- looking or 
untrustworthy types like a Ranger, then Diarmoc mut-
ters that they could waylay the Dwarf after finding the 
treasure and steal it all.
Observing Diarmoc carefully (and passing an INSIGHT  roll) 
lets the hero guess that Diarmoc is acting strangely; he speaks 
as if half- strangled, forcing the words out past his lips.
Diarmoc the Traveller
In his distant homeland, Diarmoc was a respected Man of 
means, master of a great farmstead. Now he has lost almost 
everything — home, wealth, family — and must strangle what 
remains of his honour in order to salvage anything from this 
disaster. He is quiet- spoken and grim, and a poor liar.
OCCUPATION:  Unwilling henchman
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Secretive, Outlander
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 17 =====

A TROLL-HOLE, IF EVER THERE W AS ONE
13
ACCEPTING THE QUEST
Diarmoc and Jari adjust their approach to suit the Player- heroes. 
If there is a Dwarf in the Company, then Jari might declare 
how woeful it is that the gold of the Dwarves is lost to them. 
If there are Hobbits, then he compares them to “that Hobbit 
who went east and stole a Dragon’s hoard”. Breelanders might be 
encouraged to help defend their homeland by slaying whatever 
monsters live in the valley before they threaten Bree.
If the heroes agree to Jari’s plan, he proposes they leave 
tomorrow morning; “it’s a week’s travel” to the valley where his 
uncle’s treasure is buried. He gives the Player- heroes a hand-
ful of silver pennies to buy supplies and other needed things 
for the journey. He tells them that he will meet them outside 
Bree — he’s got some ponies tied up in the woods outside town.
NOSING AROUND IN BREE
Wise or suspicious Player- heroes may wish to do a little inves-
tigating before they depart.
 ♦ Jari is well known in Bree; he has passed through sev-
eral times. Few people have a bad word to say about 
him, although a successful RIDDLE  roll discovers that 
he has failed to pay for his drinks a few times — and 
while no- one can prove that he robbed anyone, there 
are whispers of valuables gone missing after Jari passed 
through town.
 ♦ The taciturn Dwarves, if pressed, admit that Jari is known 
to them; he was exiled from the Blue Mountains for theft 
and fraud. Floki urges the Player- heroes not to trust the 
wretch. The Dwarves do not speak further of Jari’s crimes 
to outsiders, but if asked by a Dwarf, they reveal that 
Jari was accused of tomb- robbing and dealing in relics 
from lost Moria — a crime in the eyes of the Longbeard 
Dwarves. Floki admits that associating with Jari tarnished 
the good name of Floki’s own brother Flonar (A tale fully 
told in Wonder of the Northern World), and he warns that 
Jari brings ill- luck to those who travel with him.
 ♦ A close examination of the silver pennies that Jari gave 
as part payment for the quest notes that the coins are 
strange — they were minted in far- off Rohan, and bear 
the image of the King of that land.
 ♦ If the door warden of Bree is questioned, he recalls 
that Jari the Dwarf entered just as the gate was closing, 
in the company of a strange Man. The pair seemed to 
be travelling together.
Part 2: The Journey 
to the Troll- vale
Jari the Dwarf waits for the Company a short distance out -
side Bree, in a sheltered dell north of Bree- hill. The Com -
pany finds him crouched over a campfire, merrily frying up a 
breakfast of bacon, sausage and egg. Nearby, four fine ponies 
crop the long grass. Jari jumps up and greets the adventur -
ers. “Friends! Eat, eat. We have a long journey ahead of us before 
we find my Great- uncle’s treasure, so let us put a little food in our 
bellies ‘ere we march.”
The Journey North
Jari leads the Company north at first, along the edge of the 
Chetwood. Once clear of the forest eaves, they turn north-  
east. Off to the travellers’ right, the low hillocks and wild 
pastures of Bree- country slope down towards the bowl of the 
Midgewater, and little streams flow eagerly towards the marsh, 
unaware of the doleful realm that awaits them. Ahead, on 
the distant horizon, the line of the Weather Hills stands like 
a dozen watchful sentinels, with mighty Weathertop furthest 
to the south, set off a little from the rest like a lonely captain.
Of course, the travellers only rarely glimpse such a view — 
if they are lucky, then soft grey mists cloak the whole land in 
a damp shroud, and they can see little more than the grassy 
terrain ahead of them. If they’re unlucky, then rain clouds 
roll in from the north- west and drench them in miserable 
prolonged downpours that turn all the land into sucking mud.
Jari makes for a valley in the Weather Hills — the hidden 
vale of Morglynd.
VISITING WEATHERTOP
On the off- chance that the Company turns aside to 
visit the landmark of Weathertop ( Ruins of the Lost 
Realm, page 90), note that the cache there currently 
holds a note from Orothel ( page 23 ), asking for 
aid from her fellow Rangers in the Vale of Morglynd.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 18 =====

CHAPTER 1
14
JARI’S TALE
As the Company travels north, Jari engages the Player- heroes 
in conversation, ingratiating himself with them as best he can. 
He might ask about where the characters come from, why 
they have gone wandering, or what they will do with the vast 
treasure they are sure to find in the hidden valley.
Along the way, Jari tells the tale of his Great- uncle Bori. 
Again, the Lore master should tailor his tale to the personali-
ties of the Player- heroes — if they are the sort to be enchanted 
by tales of magic, then Jari might claim that his uncle laid 
magical spells of concealment on the hoard, and that only 
Bori’s rightful heir can open the cave — and it has to be at 
sunset on Durin’s day, and you need the right magic key, 
and a magic map that can only be read in moonlight. If the 
heroes are cynical swords for hire, then Jari might emphasise 
the threat of Goblins and urge the Company to hurry before 
someone else finds the treasure.
The bones of the tale are always the same: Jari claims that 
his family has always been unjustly mistreated by the jealous 
Dwarves of the Blue Mountains, and that his uncle was a trav-
eller and treasure- seeker of renown. Why, he entered into 
lost Dwarven cities in the Grey Mountains, and who knows 
what fabulous gems and jewels he found there? Anyway, the 
Dwarf- lords of the Blue Mountains threatened to take Bori’s 
hard- earned gold with fines and taxes, and rather than yield 
up his treasure to them, Bori buried it.
If the Player- heroes ask troublesome questions, then Jari 
says that he has to scout ahead, and leaves the Company for 
the evening. The Dwarf is remarkably stealthy when he wishes 
to be; following Jari requires a HUNTING  roll — losing (1d), as 
Jari is Cunning. If a Player- hero manages to follow Jari, they 
see that the Dwarf does not scout ahead; instead, he circles 
back and spies on the Company as they travel or encamp for 
the night. Alternatively, if the Company has nearly reached 
the hidden valley, then Jari sneaks off to tell the Trolls that 
their next meal is coming by signalling to Nelly Longarms — 
he climbs a tree and imitates the cry of a curlew.
DIARMOC’S TALE
Well- travelled Player- heroes may (with a successful TRAVEL  or 
LORE  roll) guess from Diarmoc’s garb and mode of speech 
that he comes from the near south beyond Dunland, from 
the border of Gondor’s western marches. Travellers from 
that region are not unheard- of lately, as rumours of trouble 
and shadow in the south drive them to safer lands, but they 
are still unusual.
If questioned, Diarmoc reluctantly gives a version of the 
truth (leaving out how his family are the prisoners of Nelly 
Longarms and her Trolls, and how he’s bound to serve Jari). 
He says that he and his kinfolk left the South and travelled 
north, but were waylaid by Trolls on the way. Only Diarmoc 
escaped, and he does not know what became of his family. 
He hopes, one day, to find a way to rescue them — if they 
have not already been eaten.
 ♦ Left unchecked, Diarmoc descends into despairing 
imaginings about what might have happened to his 
family, speculating grimly that they’ve been devoured. 
A successful ENHEARTEN  roll rallies his spirits; other-
wise, everyone listening to his woes gains 1 point of 
Shadow (Dread).
 ♦ If the Player- heroes suggest that they could help Diar-
moc rescue his family, he realises that he’s said too 
much, and hastily says that the quest at hand is to 
find Bori’s buried treasure in the hidden valley, and 
has nothing to do with Trolls. An INSIGHT  roll con-
firms he is lying — and likely leads into Challenging 
Diarmoc.
ON THE ROAD WITH DIARMOC
If the Player- heroes leave Bree in the company of Diarmoc, 
sooner or later they may choose to confront him about his 
relationship with Jari and the Dwarf’s true intention.
But discovering the truth about the situation is not so 
easy — Diarmoc’s goal is to safeguard his family. To do this, 
he must bring victims to the Troll- vale, and he must ensure 
that Jari has no reason to think that he has strayed from this 
task. If the Dwarf suspects that Diarmoc is plotting against 
the Trolls, or that Diarmoc has given warning to the victims, 
then the children’s lives are forfeit.
Diarmoc hates Jari and the Trolls for forcing him to do 
this, to sacrifice the lives of innocents to save his children — 
but if he must choose between the Player- heroes’ lives and 
those of his children, there is no question which he will pick. 
He would like to believe that the heroes can destroy the Trolls 
and free his children, but he has lost all hope, and with it, 
all courage.
Therefore, the truth is revealed slowly, peeled like the 
layers of an onion. The Lore master may use the information 
presented in the nearby box to manage the slow unravelling 
of Diarmoc’s conscience.
THE LAST NIGHT
As the travellers approach the Weather Hills, Jari leads the 
Company to a sheltered spot. The trail winds its way up a 
steep-sided hillock, one of the westernmost of the hills. At the 
top are a few tumbled stones that mark the watchtower that 
once stood here — long ago, there was a beacon fire here, 
signalling along the line of hills from the Road to Fornost 
Erain. He points east, and tells the characters that yonder lies 
the hidden valley of Morglynd.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 19 =====

A TROLL-HOLE, IF EVER THERE W AS ONE
15
Jari insists that it is a good place to camp, and suggests 
lighting a fire there, claiming that no- one will be able to see 
it from below. (“Trust a Dwarf to know a sheltered spot amid the 
rocks,” he says.) In truth, Jari intends to signal to the Trolls 
that dinner is coming tomorrow. If the Player- heroes protest, 
Jari sits down in a huff and complains about the cold and 
damp, and tries to sneak off to signal the Trolls by imitating 
the cry of a curlew.
The next morning, Jari delays breaking camp as long as 
possible, so the Player- heroes reach the hidden valley with 
only a few hours of daylight. The goal is to stall the Company 
so they are easy prey for the nocturnal Trolls.
THE FIRST REVELATION
TRIGGERED BY:  Challenging Diarmoc
If confronted, Diarmoc “admits” that he met the 
Dwarf on the road outside Bree, and that Jari paid him 
to bolster the Dwarf’s attempts to recruit adventurers. 
Diarmoc claims that Jari fears there may be dangers in 
the hidden valley, and so he had Diarmoc enter Bree 
separately as a ruse to ensure that the Dwarf would be 
able to recruit a goodly number of adventurers.
A successful INSIGHT  or RIDDLE  roll reveals that 
Diarmoc is still hiding something; the Southern -
er’s mood continues to grow ever darker and 
more troubled as they travel north.
THE SECOND REVELATION
TRIGGERED BY:  Either continuing to press Diarmoc after 
Diarmoc’s Tale ( page 14 ) is told, or if the Player- heroes 
accuse Jari of treachery.
Diarmoc admits that there is more to this quest than 
was said at Bree. The hidden valley contains little treasure 
— “it’s home to a band of foul Trolls who capture and eat 
people.” They waylaid Diarmoc’s family and devoured 
them. He met Jari as he wandered, bereft and lost, and 
Jari came up with the tale of the lost treasure in order 
to recruit some stalwart adventurers. Their real goal is 
slaying the Trolls, not finding Dwarf- gold — although Jari 
quickly assures the adventurers that the Trolls probably 
have a fortune worth taking, and there’s more to this 
quest than mere revenge.
A successful INSIGHT  or RIDDLE  roll confirms 
that Diarmoc’s being mostly truthful, but he still 
seems weighted down by guilt, suggesting there 
is more to the tale.
THE THIRD REVELATION
TRIGGERED BY:  A successful ENHEARTEN  roll when Jari is 
not listening
Diarmoc finally breaks down and tells the truth — his 
family is being held hostage by Trolls. If he does not 
bring them victims to eat — or Jari warns the Trolls that 
Diarmoc has failed — then the Trolls will kill his children. 
He does not know how Jari will signal to the Trolls, but 
if the Trolls do not receive a message from the Dwarf, 
then all is lost.
The fault is Diarmoc’s — he brought his family to this 
desolate land, he led them into the clutches of the Trolls. 
His conscience will no longer permit him to continue — 
he is already lost, but he will not damn others. He urges 
the Player- heroes to flee south before the Trolls come for 
them too, and warns them that Jari the Dwarf is in league 
with the Trolls, and tells the Heroes that they should slip 
away when Jari is not watching them.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 20 =====

CHAPTER 1
16
Part 3: The Hidden Valley
Up the hill they went; but there was no proper path to be seen, such as might lead to a house or a farm…
RUMOUR
There are haunted places away up in the Weather Hills, valleys 
where the shadows lie deep and the sun never reaches. I heard a tale 
that there’s old buried treasure in one such valley. Now, some say it 
was the Dwarves who buried it, and some say it was the Kings of old, 
and I don’t know who has the right to it. But I’ll tell you this — you 
wouldn’t catch me going treasure hunting in those hills. Too easy to 
fall and break your neck… or have something there break it for you.
OLD LORE
In the last years of the old kingdom of Arthedain, when there was 
war with the dark land of Angmar, the King’s soldiers built many 
hidden fortresses and watch- towers along the Weather Hills as a 
bulwark against invasion. Secret paths and stairs, too, they cut 
into the earth so they could move unseen. They never left themselves 
without a hidden way out.
Background
The valley of Morglynd is one of many in the wrinkled old 
skin of the Weather Hills. To the north, south and east of 
the valley rise tall grey hills, stony and barren; to the west are 
lower hills dotted with small thickets. A stream runs through 
the valley, quick and cold. It flows around an earthen mound 
called the Wart of Morglynd, forming a little mountain lake 
before it finds the path down west. The Wart was raised by 
Men of Arnor, long ago.
WAYLAYING JARI
Player- heroes who become suspicious of Jari may think 
of confronting or capturing the Dwarf. The danger of 
this tactic is that Jari has arranged a signal with Nelly 
Longarms, and if the Trolls do not get this signal when 
strangers arrive in their hidden valley, then the Trolls will 
murder Diarmoc’s family. So, capturing Jari is tantamount 
to killing Diarmoc’s kinfolk — and Diarmoc knows this, so 
he will either plead for the heroes to free Jari or attempt 
to do so himself.
If questioned, Jari initially snarls and threatens the 
Player- heroes, shouting that he has ‘powerful friends’ who 
will bring ruin down on his enemies. He admits that he’s 
in league with the Trolls and that he intended to lure the 
Player- heroes into a trap — and now that they’ve escaped 
his snare, the Trolls will eat Diarmoc’s family instead!
Possible ways to resolve this dilemma:
 ♦ A successful ENHEARTEN  or PERSUADE  roll can con -
vince Jari that the Player- heroes can defeat the 
Trolls, and that he’s better off joining the winning 
side. A converted Jari becomes a snivelling, des -
perate sycophant, eager to buy forgiveness by 
telling the Player- heroes all he knows about the 
hidden valley.
 ♦ Following and eavesdropping on Jari on the edge 
of the hidden valley can let a Player- hero learn his 
system of signals. If all is well, he makes the cry of 
a curlew three times, signalling to the Trolls that 
they should make ready to ambush the travellers. 
His other signal is to cry like a fox three times.
FOREWARNED IS FOREARMED
If Jari successfully warns the Trolls of the approach of the 
Company, see The Trolls In Wait , page 22 .
HOW MANY TROLLS?
Assume Nelly has one son for every two Player-  
heroes (rounding up). So, if you have a Company of 
five Player- heroes, then there are three Trolls, plus 
Nelly herself. Use the Stone- troll Robber statistics 
from page 152 of The One Ring  for Nelly’s sons.
Clever heroes will avoid getting ambushed 
and facing all the Trolls at once!
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 21 =====

A TROLL-HOLE, IF EVER THERE W AS ONE
17
Other than the landmark of the Wart, the rest of the 
valley is a landscape of moss- hung rocks, shadowy clefts, and 
piles of scree.
Mortal Men dwelt here in the old days. Middle Men, first, 
then Men of the West. There was a time when great herds of 
sheep and cattle grazed here before being brought to market 
at Bree — or other towns and castles that are now forgotten 
and lost under the grass. War and plague emptied out the 
valley and the lands around.
In recent years, Morglynd was home to Tolgarth Heather 
and his family, a fellow of Archet who so disliked his neigh -
bours that he set off into the wild to build a new farmstead, 
despite their dire warnings. Tolgarth Heather and his family 
were the first victims of Nelly Longarms — she crept into 
the valley by night, and hid from the sun beneath the waters 
of the little lake. When the Heathers’ sheep came down to 
drink, Nelly Longarms snatched them and drowned them and 
ate them — and when the Heathers came to investigate, she 
took them too. Now, the valley is hers… and her sons have 
eaten every wild goat and sheep within miles, so they must 
look elsewhere for prey.
Locations
1. THE SOUTHERN APPROACH
This path runs along the bank of the little stream. It was obvi-
ously cleared at some point in the last few years; rocks have 
been rolled aside and brambles cut to make the going easier. 
The path was made by Tolgarth Heather’s family. A successful 
HUNTING  roll determines that the path was restored about 
fifteen or twenty years ago, but has not been used regularly 
in the last year. With a Great or Extraordinary Success, the 
hunter finds a Troll footprint in the mud beside the river. 
There are no other Troll- tracks — which suggests the Troll 
deliberately brushed away other signs of its presence. Cun -
ning work, for a Troll.
2. TROLL LOOK- OUT
One of Nelly’s sons may be stationed on this ridge if the Trolls 
expect trouble, equipped with a Troll- shawl to hide from the 
daylight. If the Trolls are not forewarned, then a successful 
SCAN  roll of the ridge discovers evidence of Trolling behaviour 
here, like gnawed bones and tree- roots used as toothpicks.
ON SUNLIGHT
As is well known, Stone-  trolls cannot tolerate the light of 
the sun, for its touch turns them to stone. To avoid this 
calamity, Trolls take refuge in caves or in the deepest 
woods where no sunshine penetrates the forest canopy.
Here in the valley, there are no thick woods to provide 
cover, but the Weather Hills to the east do give the Trolls 
a few hours of safety in the morning before the rising sun 
touches the shaded valley. Most of the Trolls shelter in 
the tunnels of the Wart during the hated day, while Nelly 
herself prefers to submerge in the cold waters of the lit -
tle lake. Nelly has the knack of slowing her breath like a 
crocodile, so she can wait out the daylight under the water.
The Trolls also use what are called Troll- shawls or Troll- 
hides, large heavy blankets made of cow- hide or woven 
reeds, weighed down with mud and moss. If a Troll is 
caught out in the open by the rising sun, it can — if it is fast 
enough — unfold a Troll- shawl and crawl beneath it, hoping 
that every inch of its hoary skin is hidden from the daylight 
and that no enemy finds the shawl and cuts a hole in it.
While Trolls must hide from the touch of the sun, and 
find daylight painful, they can still see during the day, 
and can watch intruders in the valley from their hiding 
places. Anyone moving in the hidden valley may be spot -
ted by the Trolls, and come nightfall, the hunt begins…
TOOK-  BELLOWS’ TROLL-  PARASOLS
No discussion of Troll- shawls is complete, of course, with -
out mentioning ill- fated Hobbit entrepreneur Montgom -
ery Took- Bellows, whose creativity was matched only by 
his greed. Took- Bellows was a great collector of umbrel -
las, and had the idea of commissioning a gigantic para -
sol with the intent of selling it to Trolls. Apparently, the 
fellow was convinced that Trolls were violent and dan -
gerous only because of their unsociable hours, and that 
sheltering them from sunlight would be enough to mor -
ally redeem them.
Took- Bellows set off for the Trollshaws in Year 1352 
of the Shire Reckoning, a bundle of oversized parasols 
in hand. What became of him is a mystery, although 
the remains of a parasol were discovered by some con -
fused Dwarves a day’s travel east of the Forsaken Inn, 
who initially mistook it — the parasol, not the inn — for 
some species of wraith. It is generally assumed that 
Montgomery was eaten by his prospective customers, 
who doubtless put a parasol to use as a spit. How -
ever, the surviving Took- Bellows have a family tradi -
tion that a gust of wind caught an open parasol and 
carried Montgomery away into the clouds, and that he 
will return one day with a fortune or at least less of an 
obsession with umbrellas.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 22 =====

CHAPTER 1
18
3. AMBUSH GULLEY
This narrow gulley near the Wart is the Trolls’ preferred place 
to ambush intruders. The gulley is so narrow that a Troll can 
scramble over the rocks and block off any line of retreat, while 
the other Trolls emerge from hiding and seize their victims. 
The advantageous terrain gains (1d) to the Trolls’ attacks, in 
addition to the usual benefits of Ambush if they take the 
heroes by surprise.
As the goal of the Trolls is to add food to their larder, 
they attempt to grab intruders instead of killing them. In 
this encounter, a Troll may choose to inflict no damage with 
an attack, but instead automatically activate the Seize special 
damage option. If the Trolls find themselves losing, they with-
draw to the Wart (and anyone following them risks running 
into Nelly Longarms).
If Diarmoc is on the side of the Player- heroes, he warns 
them of the gulley and its perils.
4. THE HIDDEN TRACK
A partially concealed trail that runs parallel to the south bank 
of the stream. Bracken, reeds and earthen banks hide an 
unexpectedly deep- set trench. The soldiers of Arthedain dug 
this track many centuries ago, and though it has mostly been 
filled in by river- mud and stones that roll down from the 
hills, it is still the best way to move through the valley unseen. 
Characters moving along the hidden track gain (1d) to any 
STEALTH  rolls to pass undetected.
5. RUINED FARMSTEAD
This structure was home to Tolgarth Heather and his family, 
until the Trolls came for them. The farmstead was well- built, 
with sturdy stone walls and thatched roofs, but offered no pro-
tection against Nelly Longarms. The Trolls smashed in the doors 
and tore through the thatch, and devoured all the Heathers.
Except one. A daughter of the Heather family, Scylda 
Heather escaped the Troll attack that claimed her family (see 
box).
The cellars and outbuildings of the farmstead offer a place 
to take shelter, although it’s obvious that they offer no pro -
tection from the strong arms of Trolls. Some of the stones 
used to build the farmstead were taken from the ancient 
ruins atop the Wart.
Scylda Heather
Only eight years old, and Scylda has seen more tragedy 
than most folk ten times her age. She was out gathering 
firewood when the long fingers of the shadows of the 
hills touched the farmstead, and out of the shadows came 
the Trolls. She hid and watched the monsters capture her 
family. She hid and waited until they left the farmhouse 
before returning to the ruins of her home. She knew all 
the stories about Trolls, and how they could not bear 
the touch of sunlight, and thought she would be 
safe if she waited until dawn.
Then came that terrible moment when 
the night air filled with the smell of roast -
ing meat.
Since then, Scylda’s survived by keep -
ing clear of the Trolls, scavenging food 
from the trampled ruins of her family’s 
winter stocks and living off berries and 
roots. She debated setting off for 
Bree — in her mind, a place as won -
drous and mythical as Annúminas 
or drowned Gondolin — but 
does not know the way, so 
she stayed in the valley she 
knows. When Diarmoc and 
his kin arrived, she thought 
they might help her, but 
then to her horror they too 
were captured by the Trolls, 
and she dared not try to res -
cue them.
Scylda knows about the 
Hidden Boat (12) and the secret 
way into the Troll- hall.
1
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 23 =====

A TROLL-HOLE, IF EVER THERE W AS ONE
19
THE HIDDEN VALLEY
6. THE WART
In days of old, the followers of the king of Arthedain wrought 
fortifications of earth and stone in this valley; they dug 
trenches and tunnels, and piled up the earth from them to 
make the Wart. A tower once stood atop it; built in the last 
years of the kingdom, it was crudely made in comparison to 
other castles raised by the Men of Westernesse. That tower is 
long gone, but its wells and cellars remain. The Trolls have 
claimed the largest of these as their hall, and shelter here 
during the day. Side tunnels look from the flanks of the Wart 
out over the valley, although the Trolls cover the mouths of 
these tunnels with curtains of woven reeds and cloth.
The Wart’s covered with scraggly grass and furze; if the 
weather is rainy, the hillside turns into a muddy morass. There 
is a trail up to the top of the hill that was partially paved long 
ago, and is still the best way up.
2
4
5
6
7
8
 9
10
11
12
13
14
3
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 24 =====

CHAPTER 1
20
7. RUINS
These are the remains of the ancient 
watchtower that once guarded the 
valley. Trolls lurk amid the weath -
ered stones by night. Worn bas-  
reliefs once depicted kings and 
heroes of the North- kingdom, but 
are now little more than vague 
shapes in stone. One carving is 
surprisingly readable — it shows 
King Argeleb II, his right hand 
offering shelter to a Hobbit while 
his left hand is outstretched in 
admonition towards the east. 
Another pair of carvings, facing 
FIGHTING IN THE LAKE
Characters wading in thick mud or water are 
moderately hindered  on all Combat rolls and 
Strength- related skill rolls (Dwarves and Hobbits 
are severely hindered  instead, as are Man- sized 
characters fighting while swimming). Characters 
fighting from a boat suffer no penalty — but if 
they roll an , the boat capsizes.
west, were once images of King Elendil 
and his son Isildur.
A staircase leads down to the Troll- 
hall under the hill. The Trolls keep 
watch over this staircase during the 
day if they suspect intruders have 
come to their valley.
However, the Trolls do not know 
about the other way down into their 
Troll- hall. A narrow shaft, once used 
for bringing supplies up from the 
cellars, is mostly hidden by fallen 
stones. However, the children of Tol-
garth Heather found this shaft, and 
Scylda ( page 18 ) still remembers 
where it is.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 25 =====

A TROLL-HOLE, IF EVER THERE W AS ONE
21
8. THE TROLL- HALL
This was once the cellars of the watch- tower; now, it is a foetid 
and foul Troll- hole — a veritable Troll-  hall, even! The sons of 
Nelly Longarms have taken the cellars as their main strong -
hold, and it is here they shelter from the hated sun. The ceil-
ing of the hall is low, and bulges alarmingly in several places. 
The floor is a mess of broken bones and other filth. There 
is always at least one Troll here; during the day, all the sons 
may be gathered here, bar any look- outs on the Ridge (2).
BRINGING DOWN THE ROOF: A hero could, with a prodigious 
effort, collapse the ceiling of the Troll- hall and bury everyone 
in the chamber beneath many tons of earth and stone. An 
ATHLETICS  roll with a Magical success could certainly bring 
down the ceiling; clever characters might be able to trick or 
lure the Trolls into smashing their own shelter.
9. THE LARDER
The Trolls keep victims destined to be eaten in this side cham-
ber. The Trolls seal the entrance with a huge rock.
10. MARSH AND LAKE
Mountain streams feed this boggy upland at the 
foot of the Wart. The outer portion of the area 
is a sucking marsh similar to the Midgewater, 
but a traveller can still slog through the mud 
without too much difficulty. However, the 
waters quickly deepen, becoming a bitterly 
cold lake. The reeds and other plants make 
it hard to tell what is muddy bog and what 
is water, and one wrong step can submerge 
a traveller up to their neck.
The fearsome Troll- matriarch Nelly Longarms claims 
the marsh as her lair.
11. THE PRISONER’S RAFT
Nelly keeps Diarmoc’s surviving family as prisoners here 
on a small wooden platform in the middle of the lake. 
Diarmoc’s wife, his two children and one of his household 
servants are still alive, all trapped on the little raft. They 
could swim to the shore, if they were not all exhausted 
by exposure and hunger, and if it were not for the Troll 
lurking in the waters. Twice, they have tried to escape this 
open- air prison, and twice, Nelly grabbed and ate one of 
their number, and the rest were caught as they tried to flee 
the valley. Nelly torments them by whispering about how her 
sons will soon eat them. Sometimes, she even mimics Diar -
moc’s voice, claiming that he has abandoned his family, or 
saying that he is going to become a worse monster than any 
Troll by willingly luring more victims to the valley.
Nelly Longarms
There are many kinds of Troll, with many strange traits. 
Some have two heads; some have only one head, and 
only one eye to boot. Some are hairless, with knobbly 
hides like the fabled rhinoceros of the far south; others 
are positively hair-  ful, clad in fur so thick none of their 
other features can be discerned. Some are only a little 
bigger than a man; others are veritable giants. Some are 
cunning; some are as stupid as the rocks they become if 
the sun touches them. About the only thing that unites 
Trolls is their toothy hunger.
Nelly is no exception in that respect, even though she 
is an unusual Troll in many other ways. Green her hide is, 
and green her teeth. She has the knack of holding her 
breath for hours at a time, and hides from the sun by sub -
merging herself in the marsh and slumbering there like a 
crocodile. She’s an excellent swimmer, and likes to grab 
foes and drag them into the water. (Also, she cannot stand 
the prattling of her sons, and so leaves the Troll-  hall to 
them in favour of the quiet solitude of the marsh).
She has a talent for mimicry, and can make her usu -
ally croaky voice sound like, say, the cry of a bird, or a 
call for help, or the voice of a companion. Nelly also 
knows a few magic spells, learned in the hills of Ang -
mar in her distant youth, although she only uses these 
spells in dire need.
NELLY LONGARMS
Cruel, Cunning
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
9
ENDURANCE
70
MIGHT
2
HATE
9
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Crush 3 (6/12, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Sudden Strike . Nelly’s attack rolls in the 
first round of any combat are Favoured .
Horrible Strength . If Nelly scores a Piercing Blow, 
spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill- favoured.
Mother Knows Best . Spend 1 Hate to make a nearby 
Troll’s attack Favoured .
Dreadful Spells . Spend 1 Hate to cause a thick mist 
to rise from her lake, shielding her and other Trolls from 
the sun and making all attacks made inside the mist Ill- 
favoured  for one combat round.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 26 =====

CHAPTER 1
22
12. HIDDEN BOAT
Hidden amid the reeds here is a little boat of hide, stretched 
over a frame of woven branches, made by Scylda Heather’s 
older brothers before they were eaten. It’s simple but ser -
viceable, and can be used to paddle out to the raft to rescue 
the prisoners. The boat can carry up to four people safely.
13. PERILOUS CLIMB
For those who wish to avoid the treacherous waters of the lake, 
a steep climb down this cliff is a drier alternative. Descend -
ing the cliff requires an ATHLETICS  roll; failure means the 
climber either falls or gets stuck in place — and Nelly has 
such very long arms to snatch victims from their perches on 
her doorstep…
14. NELLY’S TREASURE
Concealed in Nelly’s den in the shallows of the lake is a cache 
of treasure. Some of these coins she brought down from the 
Trollshaws, and others her sons found in the Wart. The rest 
she stole along the way from the Heathers or from Diarmoc’s 
kinfolk or from other victims. This is a Lesser Hoard.
Schemes and Trouble
THE TROLLS IN WAIT
If the Trolls have advance warning of victims approaching 
the valley, then they conceal themselves along the narrow 
Ambush Gulley (3). Ideally, Jari stalls the Company until twi-
light so the Trolls can move freely, but if it is daylight, then 
the Trolls can use Troll- shawls and the shadows of the gully 
to avoid direct sunlight.
In the ambush, the Trolls attack from either end of the 
gully, blocking escape. This means no Player-heroes can flee 
the fight as long as at least two trolls remain. The Trolls start 
grabbing victims and stuffing them into sacks. To capture a 
victim, a Troll must first make a successful Seize attack. On 
its next turn, if the victim is still held, the Troll may spend 
its action stuffing the victim into a sack. Once stuffed into 
a sack, the victim can no longer free itself. On the turn 
after that, if the Troll is not engaged with any other foes, 
it will flee the battle with its prisoner. Player-heroes who 
have not been seized may delay the capture of their allies 
by staying engaged with the trolls, but this may prove to be 
a very difficult battle against multiple Trolls — make sure 
the players realise this.
Each Troll will only seize one Player-hero. Their goal is 
to capture the tastiest victims, not to immediately kill the 
intruders. If the Trolls are losing, they try to flee back to the 
stronghold of the Wart (6).
PRISONERS OF THE TROLLS
Captured victims face one of three possible fates — hostage, 
lure, or lunch. If the Trolls think that a particular traveller 
would make a good replacement for Diarmoc, then that trav-
eller is forced to lure more victims to the valley. Another victim 
(likely the lure’s fellowship focus) is kept as a hostage, just like 
Diarmoc’s family. Victims designated as food are destined for 
the cooking pot, although Nelly’s sons always offer their fear-
some mother the final say on how the meal should be prepared.
Characters captured by the Trolls are stripped of their 
weapons and stuffed in the larder (9) to await Nelly’s 
delectation.
BROAD DAYLIGHT WITH A BRIGHT SUN
Stone- trolls turn to stone if touched by sunlight. If there’s a 
question as to whether a Troll blunders into sunlight during 
the day, roll the Feat die; on a 6 or less (2 or less around 
noon), the Troll manages to avoid a sunbeam. Roll every 
time the Troll risks sunlight.
AID UNLOOKED- FOR
Optionally, if the heroes are in difficulty, bring in Orothel — a 
Ranger of the North who’s been tracking the Trolls for some 
weeks, and is now considering the best way to deal with such 
a dangerous group of enemies. She is encamped high in the 
hills on the eastern side of the hidden valley, watching the 
Trolls move about at dusk. She knows that most of the Trolls 
make their lair in the Wart, but has a bad feeling about the 
waters of the lake.
Orothel has left a message in the Ranger- cache at Weath-
ertop, calling for aid, and is now waiting for reinforcements 
from her fellows. However, if she sees good folk in trouble, 
she may intervene.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 27 =====

A TROLL-HOLE, IF EVER THERE W AS ONE
23
Orothel
‘For I was talking aloud to myself. A habit of the old: they 
choose the wisest person present to speak to; the long 
explanations needed by the young are wearying.’
Orothel looks like a Woman in her sixties, gaunt and care-  
worn, with a lined face like old leather, and thinning grey 
hair she hides beneath a dark hood. She is older than she 
looks, and of late she feels old in her bones. Still, there is 
too much to be done for her to retire to the relative safety 
of the Ranger- haven — she can smell a change in the east-  
wind, and these younger Rangers are too soft and green 
to be trusted with the duty of watching over the old king -
dom. Orothel is an adept hunter and tracker, relentlessly 
practical and determined. She has a sharp tongue and little 
patience for fools of any sort.
She dresses in the simple, travel- worn garb of the 
Rangers, without any distinguishing marks or sigils save 
one — she carries an especially fine dagger with a hilt in the 
form of a coiling dragon with rubies for eyes. This blade is 
a heirloom of her family, and it is called Dragon-  tooth. She 
intends to pass it on to her daughter when the time is right.
OCCUPATION:  Ranger
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Stern, Wise
Part 4: Homeward Bound
Having survived the ordeal of the Hidden Valley, the Player- 
heroes may travel back to the welcoming lights of Bree. Key 
questions to be answered:
 ♦ What becomes of Diarmoc and his kinfolk? If the 
Trolls are all defeated, they might settle in the Hidden 
Valley, taking over the homestead of Tolgarth Heather. 
In time, the valley might become a sanctuary for the 
Player- heroes to rest. Alternatively, if the Trolls are still 
a threat, then the survivors might flee south under the 
protection of the Company.
 ♦ What becomes of young Scylda Heather? Does she stay 
with Diarmoc, or do the Player- heroes bring her to her 
distant kinfolk in Bree? Might one of the heroes adopt 
the resilient child?
 ♦ What of Jari? Do the characters bring the Dwarf to 
justice in Bree, or deal with him themselves? Might 
the Dwarf redeem himself a little by fighting against 
the Trolls? Or does he escape to become an outlaw 
in the wild, perhaps blaming the Player- heroes for his 
disgrace?
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 28 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 29 =====

CHAPTER 2
MESSING ABOUT
  
IN BOATS
Indeed, few Hobbits had ever seen or sailed upon the Sea,  
and fewer still had ever returned to report it.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 30 =====

CHAPTER 2
26
his is the Third Age of Middle- earth.
Long ago, before all the world was changed, 
there were other lands. Their names have passed 
into legend — Beleriand and Doriath, Gondolin 
and Nargothrond, the dread fortress of Thangorodrim. There 
great deeds were done, great battles fought, and terrible losses 
endured. There the Elves fought Morgoth for possession of 
the enchanted Silmarils, there walked Beren and Lúthien, 
Tuor and Turin, all the heroes of old. All those lands were 
drowned in the breaking of the world at the end of the First 
Age. All drowned, and so much was lost.
But not all.
In this adventure, an astrologer’s divination leads to the 
Player- heroes taking a ship from Lond Daer and sailing to the 
Western Isles, one of the last outcrops of the drowned Beleri-
and. There, they face the shades of the dead and other perils 
out of the distant past. They also face the question: what is 
the price of heroism? What does it mean to be the ones who 
stand against the Shadow?
A Partial Tale of Years
IN THE FIRST AGE…
 ♦ A great hero of Men perishes here, and a mound is 
raised over his grave, and a stone placed there. It is 
prophesied that this grave shall never be defiled or dis-
turbed, not even if all the world changes.
 ♦ The voyage of Eärendil and the ensuing conflict brings the 
First Age to an end. The powers come out of the West and 
cast down Morgoth, and the world is remade. The mound 
is surrounded by rising seas and becomes an island.
OTHER ROADS TO ADVENTURE
Instead of having Falmir Fairbairns drop the adventure 
in the Company’s lap, some other introductions:
 ♦ A scholar might find references to a mysterious 
island in the Western Seas that the heroes of the 
old Kingdom visited — and there are those in the 
House of Elrond who bore witness to the deeds 
of ancient heroes.
 ♦ Círdan the Shipwright might tell the Player- heroes 
of strange things seen by Elven mariners, and 
send them on one of his ships to the Isle of the 
Mother.
 ♦ A character who looks into a palantír  might 
glimpse the shore of the Isle of the Mother.
REMOVING THE ANCIENT HERO
If the Lore master prefers to do without the Ancient Hero 
subplot, then make the following changes:
 ♦ Aglaen’s vision on the shore was of a tall warrior 
of ancient Arnor, not any of the Player- heroes. 
There is no obvious connection to any of the 
Company.
 ♦ Instead of having the investigation of the mys -
terious vision be the main driver of the voyage 
north, have Eagre talk of his missing daughter; 
he asks the heroes to sail with him. Alternatively, 
give the characters another reason to take ship — 
maybe they are sent to explore the coasts north 
of Lindon by Queen Nimue, or looking to trade 
with the Lossoth of the far north. They might be 
searching for rumours of spies from the south 
(see Ruins of the Lost Realm ) or even searching for 
poor Falmir Fairbairns after he was lost at sea…
 ♦ The Ghost does not single out any of the Com -
pany or speak of their ancestors ( page 6 ).
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 31 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
27
IN THE SECOND AGE…
 ♦ Ancestors of the Lossoth- folk of the north visit the Isle, 
and hunt the fabled Fastitocalon.
 ♦ Mariners from Númenor find the Isle and rediscover 
the mound of the hero. It becomes a place of pilgrim-
age. A fortress is built on the shore.
IN THE THIRD AGE…
 ♦ The ancestor of one of the Player- heroes, a great Hero, 
comes to the island in their youth and is inspired to 
battle the Enemy.
 ♦ The Hero swears to defeat the evil that lurks under the 
Hill of Fear.
 ♦ Seeking to bolster their courage, the Hero returns 
to the Isle many years later, and forges a sword in the 
ruins of the Númenórean fortress.
 ♦ The Hero returns to Eriador and again attempts to 
defeat the Hill of Fear. Again, they fail.
 ♦ The Hero flees across the sea and returns to the Isle, 
pursued by evil spirits from the hill.
RECENTLY…
 ♦ Eagre, a mariner of Lond Daer, is blown off course by 
a storm and visits the Isle. Sailing home, he retells the 
story of his adventure many times.
 ♦ Years later, his daughter Elwing sets out to retrace her 
father’s course.
 ♦ Elwing does not find the Isle at first, but reaches the Ice- 
bay of Forochel. There, she befriends the Lossoth and 
from their ancient tales learns more of the Isle. She and 
a Lossoth hunter, Jagat, mount an expedition to the Isle.
 ♦ The shade of the Hero draws Elwing to discover the 
Hero’s sword. Finding the sword draws the attention of 
the evil spirits, who assail the island with storms, trap-
ping the travellers. Elwing is wounded and forced to 
take shelter in a cave…
Part 1: The Seer and the Sailors
This adventure begins in the town of Lond Daer, at the mouth 
of the Greyflood. The town is described in the Ruins of the 
Lost Realm supplement; for those without that supplement, 
know that Lond Daer is a small fishing village at the mouth 
of the Greyflood, built atop the ruins of an ancient town that 
was already old when the kingdoms of the North were young. 
Today, Lond Daer is ruled by Nimue, a brave young woman 
who delivered the town from a sea serpent and was acclaimed 
queen of this little kingdom for her effort. Lond Daer is also 
known for the old towers that rise above the town, towers 
built by seers and astrologers in days of old in imitation of 
the Elf- tower of Elostirion, where they could look back West 
in hopes of glimpsing the vanished glory of Númenor.
If your Player-heroes wander near Lond Daer of their own 
accord, excellent; alternatively, after the events of A Troll- hole, 
the heroes might be asked to escort Diarmoc and his family 
or Scylda Heather to Lond Daer; Scylda might have relatives 
there, or Diarmoc may have heard tales of the welcoming 
down on the road. Another option is to have their Patron 
point them towards the town, for Queen Nimue seeks heroes 
and champions for her fragile little realm. 
Among those champions is Falmir Fairbairns. He’s a 
young Hobbit who was swept away by enthusiasm and a rush-
ing river, and has ended up as one of the knights of Lond 
Daer. He’s brave and reckless, but has seen enough of the wide 
world to toughen him up a little — he’s no longer a sheltered, 
innocent Shire-hobbit, but an aspiring adventurer. He also 
knows Gandalf, so if the heroes have the Grey Wizard as a 
Patron, Gandalf might introduce them to this valiant Hobbit.
Falmir is certainly an unusual sight, being a Hobbit wear-
ing a bright blue cloak and a knightly tabard, and armed with 
a dwarf-forged knife. 
For his part, Falmir stares curiously at one of the Heroes 
in particular — whichever Hero you’ve designated as being 
Heir to a heroic lineage ( page 6). When there’s a gap in 
the conversation, Falmir approaches the designated hero.
“Begging your pardon, but can I ask your name?”  When the 
hero answers, Falmir squeaks in amazement, then grabs them 
by the hand and drags them towards the Queen’s Hall. Falmir 
explains that there is an astrologer in Lond Daer by the name 
of Aglaen, a stargazer who claims to be able to tell the future 
by staring at the stars in the western sky. There are many tales 
of such mystics, and Aglaen’s a funny old fellow — but a few 
weeks ago he came into the Queen’s Hall raving about how 
he’d seen… well, the Heir. Now, these astrologers do spend 
most of their time staring into bowls of steaming mercury or 
peering at the heavens, and they’re doubtless cracked as a 
Baggins, but it strikes Falmir as a singular marvel that Aglaen 
was able to foresee the Player-hero’s arrival. Why, they must 
meet Aglaen!
As Falmir drags the hero, he mutters that Aglaen saw 
dark visions too.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 32 =====

CHAPTER 2
28
The Queen’s Hall
The hall at the heart of the town is small and smoky, but it’s a 
welcome shelter from the cold sea-wind. On entering the hall, 
there’s an audible collective gasp and a chorus of muttering 
from the assembled worthies. The astrologer Aglaen is not 
present, but one of the village children happily runs to fetch 
him — it is clear that Falmir is not the only one who heard 
Aglaen’s prophecy, and that everyone in the village wants to 
know how this story will turn out.
Queen Nimue welcomes the heroes if they are of good 
character, or if Falmir or Gandalf vouches for them. Gandalf is 
an infrequent visitor to Lond Daer, and Queen Nimue’s coun-
sellor and honorary court wizard. The Company should make 
a suitable Introduction, but this is not a formal Council unless 
STARTING IN THE HAVENS
Alternatively, if Cirdan the Shipwright is the Patron 
of the characters, then you could begin this adven -
ture in his halls. Eagre the Sailor is one of the few 
mortals who visits the Havens; he might encoun -
ter the heroes there, and recognise the Heir from 
Aglaen’s prophecy. The characters could either sail 
south to Lond Daer to consult with Aglaen — or just 
skip the whole visit to Lond Daer and take up the 
quest from Part 2.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 33 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
29
the Player- heroes have a request for the young queen. Nimue 
may become a Patron for the Company if they return to Lond 
Daer later. She has heard of Aglaen’s vision of the Heir — and 
Aglaen has also spoken of darker portents. She hopes that 
one vision coming true does not imply that Aglaen’s other 
foretellings will also come to pass.
Meeting Aglaen
Aglaen the Seer is a nervous, grey-haired fellow, thin and always 
shivering in the chilly sea-wind. He stammers when he speaks, 
which makes his pronouncements and prognostications worry-
ingly unclear. He came to the business of prophecy and foresight 
late in life, having heard tales of the ancient seers of Lond Daer. 
Aglaen’s jaw drops when he sees the Heir. He walks over and 
probes the Heir’s face with a bony finger, and examines whatever 
weapon they bear. “I saw you…” he says, “I saw you on the shore.”
At the Queen’s prompting, he tells the tale. The hall falls 
silent, the assembled worthies enthralled by the story unfold-
ing before them.
Aglaen explains that after a long night staring at the stars, 
he went for a walk, listening to the sighing of the sea on the 
shore of Middle-earth. There, he thought he heard a voice 
whispering to him, whispering the name of the Heir, and a 
vision entered his mind. He saw the Heir standing in the surf 
on the shore of a lonely island, a great sword in hand. The 
sword seemed odd to his sight — the blade was blackened, 
as if covered in mud or soot, or marred by some impurity in 
the metal. There was a ruined fortress behind him, an ancient 
structure like the towers of the stargazers. Then shadows blew 
in like a storm, and the vision was lost. 
As Aglaen speaks, there’s a snort and a laugh from the 
back of the hall, coming from a bearded sailor.
Since then, he has had three other visions — or rather, the 
same dream three times. In this darker vision, he sees a great 
dark hill looming over him, rising like a wave about to crash 
down on him. Howling spirits whirl around this hill, things of 
such terror that each time Aglaen saw them he awoke screaming. 
Aglaen has no idea what these visions mean, or why they 
came to him. He knows — or at least believes –that a foresight 
was on him, but what it portends for the Heir, he cannot say. 
The bearded sailor interrupts at this point, if the charac-
ters have not already spoken to him.
The Laughing Sailor
He introduces himself as Eagre. He explains that he rec -
ognised the island from Aglaen’s vision when the seer told 
the tale to the assembled company — a small, steep-sided 
isle all alone in the Western Sea. Old charts name it the Isle 
of the Mother. It’s as far from Lond Daer as any man has 
sailed, but Eagre has seen it before. When he was a young 
boy, sailing with his father, they were caught in a storm and 
blown far out to sea. They found their way back to the shore 
of Middle-earth by following along the coast of the western 
isles and hence to the lands of Forlindon beyond the Gulf of 
Lhun — but Eagre remembers that island. And he will sail 
there again with the Player- heroes, if they desire. 
While Eagre laughs and makes light of the voyage and the 
quest for the Isle, observant characters may (with a successful 
Insight test) perceive a gloom that hangs over him; his bois -
terous attitude is an attempt to ward off sorrow. Asking about 
Eagre in Lond Daer, or speaking to him during the voyage, 
allows the characters to learn Eagre’s tale.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 34 =====

CHAPTER 2
30
The Queen’s Command
Queen Nimue says that she guesses it is no co-incidence that 
Eagre happened to be there in the hall when Aglaen’s tale 
was retold - sometimes, the powers of the world do their work 
so subtly and secretly that it takes one of the Wise to discern 
random mischance from intentional design. She asks the 
heroes to take Aglaen’s visions seriously, and to visit the Isle 
and see what they might find there. She shall hire Eagre and 
his fishing ship to take them there, and outfit them with such 
arms and provisions that her realm can provide.
EAGRE’S TALE
As he mentioned when first introduced, when 
Eagre was a boy, he and his father were blown 
out to sea by a storm, and he visited the Isle of 
the Mother on the long journey home. No-one 
else from Lond Daer has ever made such a long 
voyage, and for all his life Eagre boasted of his 
masterful seamanship. He proclaimed himself the 
greatest of mariners. 
Now, Eagre had a daughter named Elwing, 
and he taught her to sail. She listened to his boasts, 
and aspired to be an even greater sailor than her 
father. Two years ago, Elwing set off on a voyage 
of her own — and never returned.
Eagre insists that she will sail back to Lond Daer 
one day, but he blames himself for filling her head 
with wild tales of the sea — and he knows that his 
own claim to fame is founded on an accident. He 
would never have dared sail as far as he did, if not 
for that fateful storm. 
Part 2: Voyage into the Sunset
Eagre’s fishing ship is named the Seawing, and she is as fine 
a ship as one might find in Lond Daer. Eagre has visited the 
Grey Havens at times, and learned a little from watching Cír-
dan the Shipwright at work. Swift of sail and fleet upon the 
wave is the Seawing, and she is well provisioned for a long 
voyage. The sailors of vanished Númenor could navigate by 
the stars far from the sight of land, but Eagre is not so skilled 
— he proposes to sail north along the coast, recreating his 
return journey from the lost isle in reverse “To go back again 
having been there, so to speak!” . Therefore, the heroes have a 
long voyage ahead of them. Eagre can handle the sailing of 
the ship by himself, although there is always plenty to do on 
deck for ready hands.
Optionally, if you have only a small number of heroes, 
then other travellers like Falmir Fairbairns might go on the 
adventure.
The first part of the journey is largely uneventful. The 
weather is fair and the winds steady as the Seawing swallows 
up the miles. They pass the haunted cape of Eryn Vorn, where 
branches that fell from the cliffs above float in the water, 
bumping alarmingly against the hull, and Eagre warns the 
heroes that the woods there are perilous. Soon, though, the 
haunted forest is left far behind, and the Seawing comes to 
the long and mostly empty coast of Harlindon.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 35 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
31
Merry Mariners
Describe the wild beauty of the sea, and the novelty of life on 
board a ship. Ask each Player- hero to describe how their char-
acter passes the time aboard the Seawing. Eagre’s ship has no 
crew other than the mariner himself and the Player- heroes, so 
they must deal with any troubles encountered on the voyage.
The travellers encounter Voyage Events as follows.
 ♦ FROM LOND DAER TO HARLINDON: 1–2 events, each a 
Favoured Feat die roll on the Voyage Events table.
 ♦ FROM FORLINDON TO THE NORTHERN SEAS: 1–2 
events, each an unmodified Feat die roll on the 
 Voyage Events table.
 ♦ FROM THE NORTHERN SEAS TO THE ISLE OF THE 
MOTHER: 1–2 events, each an Ill- favoured Feat die roll 
on the Voyage Events table.
VOYAGE EVENTS TABLE
FEAT DIE EVENT CONSEQUENCES
FATIGUE POINTS 
GAINED
Terrible Accident If the roll fails, the target is Wounded. 3
1 Attacked If the roll fails, everyone in the Company must make a Protection roll 
(TN 12) to avoid being Wounded.
2
2–3 Bad Weather If the roll fails, everyone in the Company gains 1 Fatigue. 2
4–7 Becalmed If the roll fails, the target gains 1 Shadow Point (Dread). 1
8–9 Fair Weather If the roll succeeds, no Fatigue is gained. 1
10 Favourable 
Circumstances
If the roll succeeds, no Fatigue is gained and the next Feat die roll on 
this table is Favoured .
1
Joyful Sight If the roll succeeds, everyone in the Company regains 1 Hope. —
OPTIONAL ENCOUNTER: 
FORESHADOWING KATHUPHAZGÂN
If you intend to use the Black Númenórean spies 
plot element from Ruins of the Lost Realm  (page 
33), then you could foreshadow the presence of 
the mighty sea- fortress Kathu phaz gân by having 
one of the Player- heroes glimpse the massive ves -
sel looming out of the fog one night. Kathu phaz-
gân vanishes into the mists before anyone is sure 
of what they have seen.
Voyage Events are resolved just like Journey Events.
TERRIBLE ACCIDENT: A traveller is knocked overboard or falls 
from the mast; a fire breaks out aboard ship; the Seawing risks 
running aground.
ATTACKED: By a sea monster (perhaps even dread Fastito -
calon!), foes on the shore like the Wild Men of Eryn Vorn, 
pirates on the southern coast.
BAD WEATHER: A storm, foul winds, a maelstrom, grinding 
ice in the Northern Sea.
BECALMED: No wind, so the Company must keep each oth -
er’s spirits up in the face of an unchanging horizon; spoiled 
or scanty provisions make for hungry bellies; bad dreams 
fray nerves.
FAIR WEATHER: Warm winds, good fishing, calm seas.
FAVOURABLE CIRCUMSTANCES: A fine tail- wind, a glimpse of 
a distant land, a dream of the open sea.
JOYFUL SIGHT: Another ship; a glorious sunset or sunrise; 
Elven- ships sailing West forever.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 36 =====

CHAPTER 2
32
Dreams
As the Seawing  travels along Harlindon, each of the Player-  
heroes (except Elves) start to experience oddly similar 
dreams. In these dreams, the hero meets with someone 
from their past — a close family member like a parent, 
an old friend, a mentor — who asks the hero why they 
have wandered so far from home, and where they think 
they are going. Not why are they on the Seawing , going to 
some lost island, but why have they forsaken the comfort 
and safety of home in favour of the perilous Road that has 
taken them so far away? Did something drive them away? 
Were words left unsaid, or cruel words spoken? Are they 
following some foolish quest? In short, why has the hero 
gone adventuring?
As each dream fades, the figure changes, taking on the 
appearance of an old, old Woman, haggard and careworn, 
sitting hunched in the shadow of a great stone. She reaches 
out withered hands and asks “Tell me, what will become of you? 
Where does thy road end, except in death and sorrow?” Those who 
experience the dream gain 1 point of Shadow (Dread).
This vision is the result of forces stirred up by the lingering 
ghost of the Heir’s heroic ancestor, who will be encountered 
in Part 3: The Haunted Isle.
The Gulf of Lune
The Seawing crosses into the Gulf of Lune. If there are any 
Elves or Elf- friends in the Company, they may wish to land at 
the Havens and take rest and resupply there, although Eagre 
urges the Company not to linger, but hurry onwards before 
the weather turns.
Otherwise, their only contact with the Elves is a brief 
glimpse of grey sails on the western horizon, and it seems to 
them that the sails do not vanish, but continue on into the 
sky like soaring gulls as the Elves take the old straight road 
into the West.
The Northern Seas
The coastline of Forlindon is a landscape of steep, forebod -
ing cliffs and crashing waves. When the wind blows from the 
west, it threatens to drive the Seawing into the many hidden 
rocks and shoals, and Captain Eagre must fight the tiller 
and call every hand on board to the lines and sails. But the 
west wind is still better than the north wind, which carries 
with it the bite of ice.
The odd dreams fade, but wild waves prevent most of the 
Player- heroes from sleeping comfortably.
Himling and 
the Western Isles
In time, the island of Himling rises above the horizon, a great 
hump- backed mound, wide- shouldered and with a flattened 
top. Snow lies heavily on the treeless isle, and there is little 
worth hunting there. On the shoreline, keen- eyed heroes spot 
a few huts of seal- skin stretched over timber frames. This was 
an encampment of the Lossoth, the Snowmen of Forochel to 
the north, but there is no- one here now, and the camp has 
not been used in years.
Eagre presses on. The next in the chain is a dark isle, thickly 
wooded in parts, with steep hills and shadowed vales. It has an 
evil look to it, and from afar the heroes see winged shapes cir-
cling the hills like tremendous bats. When the Seawing reaches 
the western cape, Eagre is relieved — they are nearly at the Isle 
of the Mother, and he knows the course from here.
VAMPIRE BATS
Fierce, Quick
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
2
ENDURANCE
8
MIGHT
1
HATE
2
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Fangs 3 (2/14, Bitten — works like 
Seize, but the victim also loses 2 Endurance at the end of 
each combat round in which they are Seized)
FELL ABILITIES:  Fear of Fire. The creature loses 1 Hate at the 
start of each round it is engaged in close combat with an 
adversary wielding a torch or other sort of burning item.
Ghastly Wings . The creature can attack any Player-  
hero, in any combat stance, including Rearward.
Snake- like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
EAGRE’S TALE
During this phase of the Journey, the characters 
notice Eagre scanning the coastline intently, as if 
searching for signs of a shipwreck. He is looking 
for some trace of his daughter Elwing. If he has 
come to trust the Player- heroes, he relates Eagre’s 
Tale (page 30 ) at this point.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 37 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
33
The Unnatural Storm
However, as the Seawing approaches the Isle of the Mother, 
a sudden squall blows out of the north- east, a chill wind 
out of Angmar. There are fell voices on the wind, and the 
characters glimpse shadowy shapes riding the air — evil 
spirits, disembodied and terrible. The Witch- king called 
these spirits out of the Void long ago, and sent them to 
harry and torment the Hero. Now they have been stirred up 
again by the discovery of the Hero’s sword, and are bound 
to stop it leaving the Isle and prevent it from being used 
against the Shadow.
These spirits reserve their full strength and malice for 
ships trying to leave the Isle, as the characters will soon dis -
cover, but they still torment approaching vessels, lashing them 
with icy winds and clawing at the crew with spectral hands, 
driving them into panic and despair. Eagre freezes in ter -
ror when the spirits attack; the Player- heroes must make a 
VALOUR  test to resist the evil of the spirits. If any of them 
pass the test, they can grab the tiller and steer the Seawing 
through the storm; if everyone fails, then the Seawing crashes 
on the rocks and runs aground without a hand to guide her. 
Regardless of the fate of the Seawing, the horror of the spirits 
forces all Player- heroes to gain 2 points of Shadow (Sorcery).
Part 3: The Haunted Isle
The Númenóreans had now become great mariners, exploring all the seas eastward.
RUMOUR
There’s a little island in the western seas, scarcely more than a spike of 
rock rising above the cold waters. They say some great hero of old was bur-
ied there, but who knows for sure? The stories may endure, but the details 
are washed away by the passing years, and only the Elves remember.
OLD LORE
Of the great stories that come down to us from the Elder Days, the 
saddest is the tale of Turin, who struggled against the dreadful 
doom that stalked him, and slew the first of the Dragons after the 
fall of Gondolin. Now Turin was laid to rest on a hilltop, and his 
mother wept over him, and it was prophesied that his grave would 
remain undespoiled until the world’s ending, when some say Turin 
will return to battle the Enemy at the Last Battle.
In time, the world changed, and all Beleriand drowned beneath 
the waves — save Turin’s grave, and a few other places in the east. 
In time, the sailors of Númenor discovered the grave, and raised there 
a tower to guard the Isle, for Turin was a kinsman of the ancestors 
of the line of kings. The isle became a place of pilgrimage for the 
knights and heroes of Númenor, a place of oath- swearing and the 
making of fellowships and covenants.
And yet, the world changed again. Númenor sank, and the Isle 
was lost once more. But Turin still slumbers there beneath the earth 
until the world’s ending.
Background
The Isle of the Mother is the smallest and westernmost of the 
Western Isles, the last land east of the Blessed Realm now that 
Númenor is gone. Here of old perished ill- fated Turin. Since 
then, the Isle has become a place of honour and an inspira -
tion to heroes. Many have come here seeking the courage of 
Turin, who stood against the Father of Dragons and defied 
the curse of the Great Enemy Morgoth (but each of them 
prayed that they would not share Turin’s dreadful fate, for he 
brought ruin on all those he loved, and bought victory at such 
a high price he slew himself at the last). The Númenóreans 
visited here in the days of their power, but for much of the 
Third Age the Isle was left empty.
Heroes and adventurers still came here, from time to time, 
for the legend of Turin the Dragon- slayer shall be told until 
the world’s ending. Among those who made that pilgrimage 
was the ancestor of the Heir, a hero who fought against the 
enemy in days of old, and here the ancestor swore an oath 
to destroy the Hill of Fear ( page 7 ) in the far northern 
wastes, a quest that was never fulfilled.
In later years, the Lossoth of the north came to this place 
and encamped as they hunted the gigantic Fastitocalon, the 
island- beast, of the cold northern waters. And that is a strange 
tale in itself, for it was to the Lossoth that Arvedui Last- king 
entrusted the Ring of Barahir, and Turin’s mother was a 
close kinswoman of Barahir long ago. Fate drew the bones 
of Turin’s mother and the keepers of her uncle’s ring back 
together after many thousands of years.
This season, the Lossoth have been troubled by ghosts 
and evil spirits. They do not know what brought this woe 
to them, for the roots of this disturbance lie far to the 
east — but they are now trapped on the Isle, unable to 
sail for home.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 38 =====

CHAPTER 2
34
 ♦ Another curious chamber at the back of the fortress. 
A row of statues all point swords at the walkway in the 
middle of the room. The walkway leads to an archway, 
and a path leads from that archway up into the hills at 
the centre of the island (the Grave of Heroes). It is as if 
the statues are threatening or challenging the observer 
to prove themselves, and it takes a great act of courage 
to leave the fortress by that grim door.
5. THE OVERGROWN TRACK
This winding path, marked by more statues and Númenórean 
carvings, leads up to the upper portion of the Isle. Heroes 
trod this path of old, but now it is weed- strewn and overgrown 
with brambles.
Locations
1. THE CAMP OF THE LOSSOTH
On the shore, here dwell a tribe of Lossoth, the Snowmen of 
Forochel. Their leader is Jagat, a young hunter. The Lossoth 
speak a few words of the Common Tongue, and while they 
are unfriendly, they are not hostile to outsiders (if somewhat 
surprised to see any other living mortals in this part of the 
world). It’s clear to the Player- heroes, though, that the Los -
soth are watchful, as if they feared some other foe. They are 
gaunt and hollow- eyed, worn by harsh conditions.
Eagre is suspicious of the Snowmen — he declares his intent 
to remain on the Seawing while the Company goes ashore.
2. THE WRECK OF ELWING’S BOAT
Here on the shore is the wreck of the boat that brought Elwing 
and the Lossoth to this island. While the wreck has partially 
been plundered for firewood, it is still recognisable.
If Eagre sees the ship, he becomes convinced that the 
Lossoth attacked his daughter — see Eagre’s Wrath, page 39.
3. STEEP SLOPES
Some ancient convulsion of the earth lifted the central por -
tion of the island up above the waters. Steep cliffs surround 
the heart of the Isle; it’s almost impossible to climb, and 
those attempting to do so lose (2d) on their ATHLETICS  roll.
4. THE NÚMENÓREAN FORTRESS
Three thousand years of wild storms and raging waves mean that 
little of this once- mighty fortress remains. The great mariners 
of Númenor built this stronghold partly as an outpost on their 
northern approaches, but also as a place of pilgrimage for heroes 
and scholars. The great sheltered anchorage with its sea- walls 
and shining jetties is gone now, and toppled are the towers that 
once looked west over the endless ocean and drowned lands. But 
a portion of the keep remains, partially lost beneath the dunes.
Exploring the accessible portion of the fortress, the 
heroes find:
 ♦ A carving depicting a lineage of heroes of old of the 
line of Men. Unless the characters are skilled in LORE , 
many of those depicted will be mysteries to them — 
Barahir and Beren, Húrin and Turin, Tuor and Huor, 
Eärendil and Elros. The furthest portion of the carving 
is lost beneath the sands that choke much of the for-
tress. If excavated and exposed, the carving is found to 
depict a great standing stone on a hilltop, and hints at 
an eerie figure who sits in its shadow.
 ♦ A room that once was clearly a forge. Oddly, this is in 
somewhat better repair than the rest of the fortress, as if 
someone repaired it in the intervening centuries.
2
4
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 39 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
35
THE ISLE OF THE MOTHER
1
3
5
6
8
7
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 40 =====

CHAPTER 2
36
JAGAT OF THE LOSSOTH
The leader of the hunters is clearly skilful and hardy, but 
it’s curious that so young a Man has been given charge of 
such an expedition. Jagat speaks enough of the Common 
Tongue to communicate with the Player- heroes.
He explains that the Lossoth came to this island to 
hunt the beast of the northern ocean. The fabled island-  
beasts swim in deep waters, but come to shore near the 
Isle of the Mother, so only here can they be hunted.
A successful LORE  roll recalls tales of the Fastito -
calon, called Limlug by the Elves, a sea- beast so 
large that it is often mistaken for an island, with 
trees growing upon its mighty shell. Such crea -
tures are generally held to be myths; certainly, 
they are not encountered anywhere in Eriador 
or Rhovanion.
The Lossoth tribes do not sail on the open ocean, but 
sometimes in very cold winters, the sea- ice extends far 
enough south to make it possible to travel or row in 
small hide- covered canoes along the island chain. Such 
winters come only once a generation, so rarely do the 
Lossoth hunt the beasts, and successful hunts are even 
rarer. Young Jagat won his position by promising the 
other Lossoth an opportunity for such a hunt, regard -
less of the weather.
A successful TRAVEL  or INSIGHT  roll notes an 
inconsistency in Jagat’s tale — the recent win -
ters, while bitter, have not been especially bad. 
The worst winter that might still be within living 
memory was the Fell Winter of 2911, and in com -
parison to that, the recent cold season was pos -
itively balmy. There is no way the ice stretched 
far enough south. The truth is that the Lossoth 
were aided in sailing here by Elwing.
Jagat warns that the islands in the chain are perilous in 
their own way — the Isle of Stone, the Isle of the Hungry, 
and this, the Isle of the Mother. The stories of the Los -
soth describe how to avoid these dangers. The shore of 
this island is safe, but it is dangerous to go inland. The 
ghost of an old Woman dwells there. Old stories of the 
Lossoth warn against entering the wood.
“The old fortress on the western shore is dangerous too,” 
he says. “Leave the stone places to the Men of the Sea.”
In recent weeks, the ghosts have been especially 
angry. The camp of the Snowmen has been attacked 
by phantoms, and no boats can leave the island. The 
Lossoth know chants and spells to drive away some evil 
spirits, and have in the past made offerings to the Witch-  
king who rules the ice, but their spells do not avail them 
against this new crop of ghosts. Something has changed; 
the Witch- king is angry with them. If they cannot find a 
way to calm the ghosts, they will remain trapped here.
If the characters ask about Eagre’s daughter Elwing, 
then Jagat frowns. He knows her. She sailed all the way 
to the Ice- bay of Forochel, and dwelt amid the Lossoth-  
tribe for a time. She told them tales of the island her 
father visited long ago, and the Lossoth recognised it as 
this very isle, where they come to hunt the island- beasts. 
Between the old Lossoth stories and the stories Elwing’s 
father told her, they were able to find the way to the Isle, 
and Jagat and his followers sailed with Elwing.
Soon after they landed here, however, a strange 
mood took her, and Elwing went up into the forest where 
it is not wise to go. The ghosts came soon after that. He 
does not wish to blame Elwing for rousing the ghosts, but 
suspects there is a strong connection between the two.
THE WITCH-  KING
Scholars may note that the Witch- king was defeated in 
T.A. 1975, and the realm of Angmar cast down, but the 
King of Angmar remains a figure of mythic terror to the 
Lossoth, and they insist he still troubles the world.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 41 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
37
6. THE STONE OF THE HAPLESS
Here, on the highest spot of the island, is a green burial-  
mound, and atop the mound is a carved grave- marker, a 
great square- sided stone. Words are engraved on this ancient 
stone by two different hands, but neither inscription can 
be read for the stone is so worn by thousands of years of 
wind and rain.
7. THE HAUNTED WOOD
Spirits — the same evil spirits who brought a storm down 
on the characters as they arrived at the Isle — haunt this 
wood. Most are bodiless, able only to affect the weather or to 
strike fear into the hearts of mortals, but others have taken 
on physical form, inhabiting the corpses of those who have 
perished here. Some wear the bodies of Lossoth- hunters who 
came here in the Fell Winter of 2911; others are skeletons 
garbed in leaf- mould and bramble, crawling things of yellow 
and rotten bone.
While these spirits can be found throughout the wood, 
they cluster around the hollow (location 8) — except when 
anyone tries to leave the Isle by sea, in which case the spirits 
leap into the sky and whip up a storm.
MEETING THE MOURNER
As the heroes explore the mound near the Stone of the 
Hapless (location 6), they suddenly become aware that 
there is an old, old Woman sitting in the shadow of the 
stone. She is a ghost, or something like a ghost. If she 
had a name, it is long lost. Now, she is closer to an arche -
type; she is every mother who mourns her lost son, taken 
by war or questing; she is everyone left behind when a 
loved one goes down the Road to adventure. Call her 
the Mourner.
The characters likely recognise her as the figure from 
their dreams.
“My son lies here,” she whispers,  “and the waters took 
my daughter. They fought the Enemy, and all that was 
left to me was sorrow and stories. They are gone. They 
are gone, and I weep.” She looks up at the characters, 
and her gaze is like a spear of ice. “Others have come 
here, so many others. Stories brought them, and sorrow 
follows them. To them I said, go home. Live and laugh. 
Turn aside from the quest.”  She lowers her head again. 
“They never listen. But it has been a long, long time since 
any came here. I dared think I might sleep, but now the 
Shadow is rising once again, and the stories are retold. 
To you I say: Go home. Live and laugh. Turn aside from 
the quest. Only doom waits for you.”
Ask each of the Player- heroes if they wish to follow 
the ghost’s advice and give up adventuring. On the off-  
chance that a player decides to retire their hero, their 
next one gains +5 points to their Previous Experience. 
That player continues to play their hero until the end of 
the current Adventuring Phase, and may then create a 
replacement Player- hero with more of an appetite for 
peril.
Once they have all declared their intention to con -
tinue, the ghost turns to the Heir.
“One of your kinsmen came here, many years ago. 
He should have heeded my words; instead, now he too 
is bound to this world of sorrow. I say to you a third time 
— turn aside. Go home.”
If the Heir continues to refuse, the ghost extends a 
bony finger, pointing deeper into the wood, and then 
vanishes.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 42 =====

CHAPTER 2
38
Wights and Wraiths
The spirits haunting the island come in two forms — 
embodied Wood- wights  and disembodied Unhoused 
Wraiths . The Wood- wights lurk in the underbrush or 
buried in shallow graves, waiting for unwary victims. If 
a traveller perishes, a disembodied wight gains a new 
physical shell to dwell in. The Unhoused Wraiths torment 
and bewilder travellers in the wood; they strike fear into 
their hearts, cause their sight to darken, and make the 
terrain impossibly confusing and scary. The trees seem to 
move and whisper, tree-roots and branches claw at the 
travellers, and a foul and freezing wind howls through 
the wood.
In game terms, when one or more Unhoused Wraiths 
are nearby, all Player-heroes gain 1 Shadow point (Dread). 
Those who fail their Shadow test lose (1d)  on all rolls until 
they leave the haunted area. Player-heroes involved in 
combat who succeed on the Shadow test must repeat 
it at the start of each round, until they fail or leave the 
haunted area.
WOOD-  WIGHTS
Dreadful, Rotten
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Claws 3 (4/14, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark . All attack rolls are 
Favoured while in darkness.
Fear of Fire . The creature loses 1 Hate at the start of 
each round it is engaged in close combat with an adver -
sary wielding a torch or other sort of burning item.
Deathless . Spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound. Spend 
1 Hate to reset to full Endurance when reduced to zero 
Endurance. Ineffective against Player- heroes wielding a 
Bane weapon (Undead).
Heartless . This creature is unaffected by the Intim -
idate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is 
obtained.
Thing of Terror . At the start of the first round of the 
battle all Player- heroes in sight of one or more creatures 
with this ability gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). Those 
who fail their Shadow test are daunted and cannot 
spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
8. THE HOLLOW
In the heart of the eastern portion of the wood is a small, 
shallow cave, a hole in the hillside. The wights lurk in the 
shadows of the trees here, but dare not enter the cave for fear 
of the sword that rests there.
Elwing daughter of Eagre is trapped within the cave — 
and, buried in the mud where she lies, is the hilt of an ancient 
sword. A long-dead skeleton in the remnants of the garb of 
the Heir’s folk still clutches the sword. (Optionally, if you wish 
to gird other characters with magical items, there might be 
other treasures in the grave too.)
When the Heir first sees the sword, take them aside and 
run The Heir’s Vision, page 39.
If a character draws the sword from the mud, they find that 
the blade is quite crudely made, as if forged in haste or by one 
who had little smith- craft. That said, veins of some curious black 
substance run through the steel, and have gathered at the point 
and edges of the blade, which have remained keen despite long 
centuries of neglect. See The Hero’s Sword, page 39.
ELWING
Eagre’s daughter has been trapped in this cave by the 
Wood- wights for weeks. She is half- mad with hunger 
and terror, and half- dead from exposure, but still 
she clings to life. If she were well, she could tell the 
heroes how she came here — how she sailed north, 
following her father’s example, and ended up living 
with the Lossoth of the Ice- bay. If she were well, she 
could speak of the journey with Jagat to this isle, and 
the strange dreams that drew her to the Stone of the 
Hapless. She could speak of how the old Woman’s 
ghost showed her a vision of her father Eagre, drunk 
and despairing in the shadows of the Queen’s Hall 
in Lond Daer. She could proudly proclaim that she 
rejected the old ghost’s vision and pressed on into 
the wood, to where she found this sword.
And if she had not found the sword, she 
might still be well. Touching the sword roused the 
Wood- wights, and nearly drove her mad with the 
memory of ancient fears. Now, all that Elwing can 
do is moan and mutter about the ‘dreadful hill’ 
and the  ‘oath’ and ‘the pursuing shadows.’
If the characters bring her down out of the 
wood and get her back to safety, then she might 
be healed at Rivendell or Mithlond, or restored by 
patient care in her father’s house. But right now, 
Elwing is unwell, and needs the characters’ help.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 43 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
39
The Wood- wights are bound to destroy the wielder of the 
blade, even though they fear its touch. See The Sword and the 
Wights, page 40.
Schemes and Trouble
THE SUSPICION OF THE LOSSOTH
The Lossoth are not mariners, and do not sail on the open ocean. 
Jagat’s followers were swayed by his promises of an unseasonable 
hunt for the island- beast, and convinced to sail with Elwing in 
her boat to this island, but now they fear they have made a ter-
rible mistake. Elwing’s boat is wrecked, the Sea- woman is gone, 
and they are assailed by evil spirits. When the Player- heroes and 
Eagre arrive, the Lossoth begin to grumble. “Should we not take 
this second boat and sail home, no matter what Jagat says?” suggests 
one. “All boats are bad luck,” observes another, “and bring ill- fortune 
to those who sail in them. We ruined our luck by sailing in Elwing’s ship, 
and taking this second boat would only make things worse.”
And a third whispers, “the old stories say it is the Witch- king 
who controls the winds and holds the fealty of ghosts. We must win 
his favour if we are to survive. Of old our ancestors knew spells and 
offerings that pleased him, and I still remember some of them. Let 
his enemies be our enemies.”
The Lossoth do not immediately disobey Jagat or turn 
on the Player- heroes — but if it seems like the Player- heroes 
offer no solution to the plight of the Lossoth, or if Eagre acts 
against them, then the Lossoth may rise up against Jagat and 
attack the heroes. Assume two hunters per hero.
EAGRE’S WRATH
If Eagre suspects that his daughter Elwing is lost forever 
through shipwreck or misadventure, then he blames the Los-
soth and calls on the Player- heroes to support him in demand-
ing answers — and even then, he is loath to believe any answers 
LOSSOTH HUNTER
Tough, Wary
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
4
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Spear 3 (4/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Thick Hide . Spend 1 Resolve to gain (2d)  
on a Protection roll.
he gets. A successful PERSUADE or ENHEARTEN roll can convince 
Eagre to stay his hand, as can promising to search for Elwing. 
However, if the characters ignore Eagre’s worries or fail to 
calm him, then he may attack the Lossoth or attempt to leave 
the Isle on board the Seawing, abandoning the Player- heroes.
THE HEIR’S VISION
If the Heir touches the sword, they have a strange waking 
dream. They see someone crouched in the hollow, next to 
the blade — it is their ancestor, the Hero. The shade of the 
ancient hero speaks to them, saying:
Three times I came to this grave, this sacred land.
Once when I was young and brave, and sought adventure.
Through adventure I won glory at the King’s right hand.
Again when the King charged me with a great quest:
To break the darkness under Amon Guruthos.
My courage failed me, and I fled into the west.
I forged a sword and my courage anew.
I found brave companions and set out again.
But it was not enough. The darkness broke us.
I alone survived. I fled, pursued by phantoms.
A third time I returned. A third time pays for all.
A third time I came to the grave of heroes to die, and wait for thee.
THE HERO’S SWORD
The sword forged by the long- dead hero is named Estelang, the 
Unyielding Hope. The sword is notable for the strange 
black veins that run through the blade, traces of some 
other metal that adulterates the steel. It is a blade 
of Númenórean Craftsmanship, and is made to be 
the Bane of Undead and Evil Men. It has 
the Qualities of Superior Fell, Superior 
Grievous, and Keen.
It also has another magical prop-
erty — when wielded against Undead, 
it removes their Heartless fell abil-
ity, and makes them Craven 
instead (when affected by the 
Intimidate Foe combat task, 
that creature also loses 1 
Hate).
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 44 =====

CHAPTER 2
40
THE SWORD AND THE WIGHTS
If a Player- hero — ideally, the Heir — claims the sword, then 
all the Wood- wights converge on the hollow. No longer do 
they haunt the wood, no longer do they ride the winds and 
call up storms; they all rush towards the sword, seeking to 
destroy the new wielder and end the threat of the sword. A 
howling darkness gathers, shaking the trees and striking terror 
into the hearts of the heroes. On the shore below, the Lossoth 
hide, dismayed by this newest terrible omen.
The characters have two options.
 ♦ They could break the sword, or throw it into the ocean, 
or otherwise render it beyond use. This does deal with 
the threat of the Wood- wights — with the sword gone, 
the spirits’ task is done, and they can return to the 
Hill of Fear.
 ♦ The other, more perilous but more worthy, option is 
to hold against the tide of darkness. The characters 
must survive a battle with a host of Wood- wights. The 
Wood- wights all suffer from Fear of Fire, so between the 
magic of the sword and a bonfire, the characters have 
a chance of success. Assume there is one Wood- wight 
per Player- hero, plus countless Unhoused Wraiths — 
but if all the Wood- wights are defeated, the spirits flee.
If the Player- heroes are in dire need, then offer the Heir a 
choice. If the Heir takes on the burden of their ancestor’s 
oath, then all the Player- heroes gain (1d)  on all attack rolls 
and Shadow tests, and enemies lose (1d) on all attack rolls 
for the rest of the combat. However, the oath now binds the 
Heir, and they must dedicate themselves to destroying the 
Hill of Fear — a task no hero has accomplished in all the 
Ages of the world.
FASTITOCALON
Fierce, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
10
ENDURANCE
120
MIGHT
3
RESOLVE
10
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Bite 3 (6/20, Pierce), Thrash 3 
(10/12, Break Shield)
FELL ABILITIES:  Hideous Toughness . When an attack inflicts 
damage to the Fastitocalon that would cause it to go to 
zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, 
if the creature is still alive, it returns to full Endurance.
Horrible Strength . If the creature scores a Piercing 
Blow, spend 1 Resolve to make the target’s Protection 
roll Ill- favoured.
Thick Hide . Spend 1 Resolve to gain (2d)  on a Pro -
tection roll.
NEW FELLOWSHIP UNDERTAKING: 
JOURNEY TO THE STONE 
OF THE HAPLESS
Great power and majesty they still wore, the silent 
wardens of a long-  vanished kingdom.
By visiting the graves on the Isle of the Mother, 
and considering how those buried there strug -
gled against the enemy, a weary Hero may find 
new purpose.
Choose this Undertaking to recover a num -
ber of points of Hope equal to the number 
of Shadow Scars you bear.
NEW FELLOWSHIP UNDERTAKING: 
HUNT WITH THE LOSSOTH
The counsel of the Lossoth was good, by chance 
or foresight.
A hero may contribute to the well- being of the 
Lossoth- folk and win their trust by going hunt -
ing with them along the shores of the Ice- bay of 
Forochel.
Choose this Undertaking to count the Los -
soth summer camp on the southern coast 
of the Ice- bay as a safe haven for the dura -
tion of the next Adventuring Phase.
HUNTING THE FASTITOCALON
The great Fastitocalon, called Limlug by the Elves, 
is a tremendous beast — not serpent, nor whale, 
nor turtle, but partaking of elements of all three. 
The creatures grow a carapace or shell as armour, 
but as they age so much dirt and debris catches on 
the upper plates of this armour that elder beasts 
have been mistaken for islands.
Should the Lore master want to test the mettle 
of the Company, they may be made to encounter 
the Fastitocalon while sailing in the northern seas, 
or while hunting with the Lossoth. Facing the great 
sea- beast is worthy of an adventure by itself.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 45 =====

MESSING ABOUT IN BOATS
41
Part 4: Homeward Bound
Once the spirits are defeated, travellers may once again depart 
from the Isle.
Elwing’s ship can be repaired with wood from the forest, 
given time. Alternatively, the Lossoth may crowd onto the Sea-
wing alongside the Player- heroes. If Eagre and the Lossoth are 
on good terms, he gives them passage as far as the edge of the 
Ice Bay of Forochel; otherwise, he leaves them on the coast 
of Lindon, from where they must make their own way home.
If the characters part on good terms with the Lossoth, 
then Jagat invites them to visit their cold homeland in Forod-
waith, and suggests they return to the Isle of the Mother in 
some future year to hunt the Fastitocalon.  “Surely,” he says, 
“we will have better luck then.”
Shaken by his experience and the travails of his daughter, 
Eagre hastens to return to the safety of Lond Daer. No more 
will he tell stories of wild voyages and heroic exploits; he now 
intends to stay close to home, and to cherish what he has. He 
encourages Elwing, too, to give up her wandering.
In Lond Daer, the seer Aglaen is alarmed to discover that 
his vision proved mostly correct. He has spent years being 
an unsuccessful astrologer; to have an accurate prediction 
shakes him to his bones.
Gandalf, if he encouraged the heroes to set off on the 
quest, says nothing, but his gaze lingers on the sword recov -
ered from the Isle, and he draws on his pipe with quiet 
satisfaction.
Seeking Amon Guruthos
The location of Amon Guruthos, the Hill of Fear, is a mystery.
Old tales suggest it lies somewhere in the trackless wastes 
of the Forodwaith, beyond the mountains of Angmar. Other 
accounts note that the Hill is ‘black as a burnt heath’, which does 
not fit at all with a location in the snowy lands of the far north.
Elwing, if questioned about her time with the Lossoth, 
has no knowledge of such a Hill — but she does men -
tion that the Lossoth were ill- at- ease, as if troubled by 
bad dreams, and there were rumours of Orcs moving 
in the far north.
Even if a character has sworn an oath to destroy the Hill, 
charging off into the wilderness without any clue of where 
they are going or what they will do there is utter folly. A wiser 
option is to seek out scholars and lore- masters who might 
know something of the wars of old.
 ♦ A Patron like Círdan or Gandalf can warn the charac-
ter about the perils of the Hill; how it has long been 
a stronghold of evil powers, and how even the bravest 
souls have fled the darkness beneath — but even they 
do not know precisely where the Hill might be.
 ♦ Elrond, the Lore master of Rivendell, knows more 
specifically where the Hill is located — it lies beyond 
the Mountains of Angmar, in the lonely land between 
the last mountain and the Ice Bay of Forochel. How-
ever, the Hill is said to be hard to find, and the paths 
around it are treacherous.
One member of Elrond’s household has been to 
the Hill. Glor findel went there in the days after the 
Battle of Fornost, and entered into the caves below. If 
asked, the Elf- lord shakes his head. “I saw nothing. Bones 
and dust, but nothing more. Whatever power once resided there 
was gone — fled, I would guess, into the darkness beyond the 
circles of this world. But if it was not destroyed, then it could 
be called back by the malice of the Enemy.” Glorfindel recalls 
approaching the hill via an underground tunnel; he 
hunted Orcs and Trolls in the dark places there.
A Last Dream
Pick one of the Player- heroes. That character has one last dream 
some weeks after leaving the Isle of the Mother. They dream of 
the day they left the Isle, and in the dream they look back to 
the shore, and there they see the figure of the ghostly Mourner 
keening on the shore. The island beyond seems to change, the 
waters somehow becoming the snowy plains of the north, the 
mound becoming a dark and terrible hill — the Hill of Fear.
All the character hears is the weeping of the Mourner as 
the shadow of that hill rises up and crushes the little boat car-
rying the Company. They are all lost in the darkness.
But it was only a dream.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 46 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 47 =====

CHAPTER 3
KINGS 
OF
  
LITTLE KINGDOMS
That’s haunted land, they say.  
None but a robber would go there.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 48 =====

CHAPTER 3
44
f you have heard a quarter of the tales about Gandalf, then 
you will know the sort of dangerous person he is. Off wan-
dering the road without so much as a by- your- leave, drift-
ing from town to town like some sort of vagabond. The 
things he does! Encouraging young lads and lasses to go off on 
adventures of all sorts! And the worst thing is, no- one has the 
courage to put a stop to his meddling! Even formerly respect-
able sorts, Gentlehobbits like the Old Took or Baggins of Bag 
End, or sober businessmen like Butterbur — they indulge the 
old rogue, when they should be setting the Shirriffs on him!
No, Gandalf is bad news.
So when a mother pleads with the Player- heroes to fetch her 
son Hamfast back from Gandalf’s company, what do they do?
This adventure is assumed to start in Bree, but it works 
best if the young lad is related to one of the Player- heroes — 
so, instead of a Bree- boy named Hamfast as the quarry of this 
quest, you could substitute a Hobbit- lass named Daisy or an 
impressionable Dwarf called Grungi, or even a visiting trader 
from far- off Dale. (Neither Elves nor Rangers are suitable, as 
should be plain.)
The False Wizard
In truth, this has nothing to do with Gandalf at all — the vil -
lain of this piece is an outlaw named Osmer. Everyone’s heard 
of Gandalf, and everyone knows what he looks like, so it was 
easy for Osmer to hide his features behind a big white beard, 
some false eyebrows and a grey cloak and wide- brimmed hat. 
Now all of Osmer’s crimes will be attributed to Gandalf, and if 
anyone comes looking for him, he can strip off his disguise in 
a trice. Taking Gandalf’s identity also makes it easy for Osmer 
to recruit new henchmen — poor simple Hamfast thinks he 
is off on an adventure, while he has actually fallen in with a 
band of outlaws…
OTHER ROADS TO ADVENTURE
The Lore master may wish to move this adventure to 
somewhere other than Bree; if that is the case, then the 
descriptions and names presented in the text must be 
adjusted accordingly.
Other ways to involve the Player- heroes include:
 ♦ A Ranger or Patron asks the Company to deal with 
thieves on the road east of Bree.
 ♦ While travelling, the Company is caught in bad 
weather, and must take shelter in the House of 
Farrell.
 ♦ If you played through A Troll- hole, if Ever There 
Was One  (page 9 ), then Scylda might be the 
impressionable youth lured away by “Gandalf”.
ALTERNATE FOOLISH YOUTHS
LOCATION
FOOLISH 
YOUTH
TROUBLED 
MOTHER
Bree Hamfast Lucinda Willow
Whitfurrows Daisy Bella Brockhouse
Halls of the Dwarves Grungi Freri
On the Road Sigfred Una
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 49 =====

KINGS OF LITTLE KINGDOMS
45
Part 1: A Mother’s Plea
The heroes are stopped by Lucinda Willow of Bree. If she’s 
related to one of the Player- heroes, then she approaches her 
relative with a worried look on her face. Otherwise, she intro-
duces herself more violently, swatting one of the heroes with 
her broom and accosting them. “You’re one of them adventur-
ers, aren’t you? Well, what are you going to do about my Hamfast?”
Between sobs (or whacks from the broom), Lucinda 
reveals:
 ♦ Her son Hamfast left home two weeks ago and went 
off into the Wild. She knows he’s gone in the direction 
of Deadman’s Dike (if you move the adventure west 
to Ered Luin, then replace that with another location 
connected with the old kingdom of Arthedain).
 ♦ She’s heard that ‘the old Wizard Gandalf’ was hanging 
around Bree at the same time, and that he was talking 
to Hamfast. Clearly, the Wizard has bewitched her boy, 
or at least filled his head with all sorts of nonsense.
 ♦ Gandalf told Hamfast that there was treasure to be 
found up at the Dike, and that they needed a great 
warrior to help defend the expedition.
 ♦ “Ham’s no hero. He’s not the sort to go swinging swords or 
fighting Trolls. He left the house without so much as a travel-
ling cloak, the big idiot! Please, please, go get him back.”
The Mystery of Gandalf
While Player- heroes who have never met Gandalf may see 
nothing untoward in this tale of a Wizard recruiting some 
farmboy for an epic quest, characters who have met him or 
have him as a Patron may have reason to be suspicious. Some-
thing about the tale just sounds off. If they press Lucinda for 
a description of Gandalf, they spot inconsistencies — the 
Wizard’s hat is blue, not grey, and he wears a silver scarf. His 
beard is long, but not especially bristly, and his eyebrows are 
not merely prominent, but astounding. It sounds like some -
one masquerading as the Wizard…
LOOKING FOR RUMOURS
If the Player- heroes ask around the neighbourhood, they 
learn that Gandalf was seen in several other places nearby — 
in taverns, on the road, and in the company of some rough- 
looking Men. None of these places are Gandalf’s usual haunts; 
for example, if the Company is in Bree, then Gandalf did not 
visit the Pony, but was instead observed extorting free drinks 
at the bar of the Lamplighter Inn in Staddle (see The One 
Ring, page 186).
INTRIGUE IN THE HILLS
Osmer — the would- be outlaw chief who’s disguising himself 
as a Wizard — has a plan. On a previous journey, he discov -
ered the ruins of an old watchtower, close to the East road. 
That, he thought to himself, would be a marvellous spot from 
which to rob travellers. There are two obstacles to this plan 
— one known, and one unknown.
The known obstacle is the House of Farrell, a farmstead 
located only a short distance from the ruined watchtower. 
Osmer intends to murder Farrell, or at least force the old 
farmer to serve him, and claim the farmstead for his own. 
Osmer’s first attack on Farrell’s farmhouse met with unex -
pected difficulties, but he intends to try again.
The unknown obstacle is a misfortune that Osmer could 
not have predicted, even if he really was a Wizard. Far away in 
the north, beyond the Mountains of Angmar, the Hill of Fear 
is stirring, woken by agents of the Enemy. Spirits and wraiths 
are abroad in the land once more, and one such shade has 
inhabited the corpse of a long- dead warrior.
A warrior who is interred in the crypt of the very tower 
Osmer intends to occupy…
Part 2: Following the Trail
According to Lucinda, Hamfast and “Gandalf” were heading 
towards Deadman’s Dike (see The One Ring, page 196), so the 
heroes have some idea where to go. A successful HUNTING  
roll lets them pick up the trail without delay (a failed roll 
means the Company takes the wrong route and must double 
back, adding a few days to their journey).
The journey takes the Company away from the road, into 
the Lone- lands. “Gandalf” takes a curious route, for the trail 
leads through thorny thickets and trudges through marshes 
full of biting flies. Stranger still, the route no longer heads 
towards Deadman’s Dike, but follows a long loop that arcs 
east, then south until the Company find themselves heading 
back towards the road.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 50 =====

CHAPTER 3
46
Finally, they come to a fold in the hills east of Weathertop 
(If you’ve moved this adventure, then it’s near some other 
point on the Road, or a river crossing — anywhere that would 
make a good lair for outlaws!).
Ahead, on a hilltop, they see a fortified farmstead sur -
rounded by a sturdy wall. Smoke rises from its chimney — and 
also from the smouldering remains of one of the outhouses. 
Some misfortune has recently befallen the place.
Bree- folk or experienced travellers in these parts know 
the House of Farrell. The farmer and his kin live on the edge 
of the wild, for Farrell has no great love of people. His sons 
bring their cart into the market at Archet every few months, 
but they scowl all the while as if meeting with anyone not 
of their family is a great imposition. In years past, Farrell’s 
father gave grudging shelter to passing Rangers, but of late 
Rangers are more likely to be told to stay off his land lest he 
set the dogs on them. Still, while rude and unpleasant, he’s 
not an Evil Man — he may dislike his fellow Men, but he’s 
no friend of Orcs.
If the heroes approach the house, run Part 3: The House 
of Farrell.
The trail peters out amid the scree fallen from the heights; 
an extraordinary HUNTING  success could find more of a trail 
leading to Part 4: The Ruined Tower (page 49).
Part 3: The House of Farrell
If the characters approach Farrell’s house after nightfall, or 
with weapons drawn, then Farrell and his family loose arrows 
and hurl stones at them, and shout at them to begone! Dogs 
bark loudly behind the walls of the compound, and it is clear 
that the farmstead was expecting some attack. A COURTESY  
roll convinces them to stop their counter- assault.
If the characters approach in broad daylight and do not 
appear threatening, then they’re hailed by Farrell as they 
climb the path towards his house. “What do you want?” he 
demands. If convinced that the Player- heroes are not immedi-
ately hostile, he coughs loudly, spits, and invites them into his 
compound (but not his house) to talk to them out of the wind.
An Audience with Farrell
Farrell shows the characters a spot sheltered from the constant 
wailing wind by his high walls. There are two old benches there, 
and a firepit. He sits on one bench, a sword across his lap. His 
two sons (Farrell the younger and Farweld) stand behind him. 
His wife Ernalda, his daughters- in- law Poppy and Tulla, and a 
few servants watch nervously from the house. His dogs prowl 
around, sniffing at the newcomers before lying down by the fire.
While there is no need for a full Council scene here, Far-
rell is suspicious of strangers, and unwelcoming. Players may 
try to win his favour by showing respect, or by telling a tale or 
singing a song (rolls of RIDDLE , COURTESY  or SONG  can help; 
Farrell remains suspicious and rude towards any characters 
who fail). During the meeting, Farrell launches into a litany 
of complaints, directed at whichever character seems to be 
in charge. He complains that there are more people on the 
Road in recent years, more Dwarves and Bardings and other 
strange folk, coming over the mountains and bringing their 
strangeness with them. With the next breath he grumbles that 
there are too few people on the Road lately, and that some -
thing should be done about all the outlaws. He complains that 
there are all sorts of troublemakers about these days, Orcs 
and Goblins and Bandits, and numbers Rangers among them.
If asked about either Hamfast and “Gandalf”, Farrell says 
the only people he’s seen around lately are the outlaws who 
tried to raid his farmstead last night. They came up the hill 
and tried to climb over the wall into the chicken coop, and 
young Farweld here raised the alarm. The intruders had weap-
ons, and struck at some of Farrell’s household, and he and his 
boys responded in kind. No one was slain, as far as he knows, 
but he believes some of the outlaws were wounded.
 ♦ No one knows where the outlaws went, but some of 
them were limping, having been struck in the legs with 
arrows. They can’t have gone far. A successful INSIGHT  
or RIDDLE  roll suggests Farrell knows more about the 
hiding place of the outlaws than he is willing to reveal 
at this point. (Farrell suspects the outlaws are hiding 
in the ruined tower, but cannot be sure — and would 
prefer to keep the adventurers guarding his farmstead 
instead of running off into the wild).
 ♦ If asked, Farrell the Younger volunteers that he thinks 
he saw a “tall, bearded old man with a pointy hat” direct-
ing the assault on the chicken coop. He has never met 
Gandalf, but his father Farrell the Elder knows the 
Wizard by reputation, and is convinced he is a fraud. 
(“Fireworks and cheap tricks, feh!”)
 ♦ A roll of INSIGHT  notes that Farweld is oddly silent, 
despite being the one who raised the alarm. If ques-
tioned, he admits that he was up at night because he 
thinks he saw something. His father grumbles that the 
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 51 =====

KINGS OF LITTLE KINGDOMS
47
boy is soft- headed and dream- addled and there is no 
point in listening to him, but if reassured (or asked 
privately) Farweld says that he swears he saw a “giant 
walking down from the north, like a man made of snow and 
darkness, only tall as a mountain”.
Assuming the Player- heroes have not offended him, Farrell 
grudgingly suggests that they can stay the night “not as guests, 
mind you!” They can earn their keep clearing out the remains 
of the burnt shed. And if the raiders return, why, it would be 
good to have more eager hands to defend the House.
Farrell the Elder
One has to be tough to survive here on the edge of the 
Wild, and Farrell is certainly tough, like old leather. He 
is the petty tyrant of his little dominion, and tolerates no 
dissent among his family or servants, but he is not delib -
erately cruel — merely impatient and hot-  tempered. The 
growing weakness of his ageing body frustrates him, as 
he believes that neither of his sons are ready to take over 
as head of the household.
OCCUPATION:  Farmer
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Stern, Rustic
A Night at Farrell’s House
Several events happen during the night. The Lore master 
should consider having one event befall each member of 
the Company, so one character overhears Farrell’s sons con-
spiring, another has bad dreams, a third spots the lurking 
outlaws and so forth.
FARRELL DRINKS HEAVILY
After a meagre and grudging supper, Farrell the Elder pro -
duces a bottle of wine from the Southfarthing and proceeds 
to drink it all himself. Half- drunk, he wobbles over and ties 
up his two dogs near the main gate so they can keep watch. 
(“Better sentries than all of ye!” he mutters.) He grows angry if 
anyone questions him, and barks out orders to keep watch for 
a second attack until he finally falls asleep and snores loudly. If 
woken, he leaps up, brandishing the empty bottle as a weapon. 
If any of the Player- heroes are unlucky enough to cross his 
path, then he seizes upon some aspect of their personality 
or appearance that annoys him and berates them at length.
THE SONS CONSPIRE
Farrell the younger and Farweld meet in secret in a shadowy 
corner of the compound. Both are nervous — Farrell fears 
that they won’t be able to protect the farmstead, and that once 
the adventurers leave, they’ll be overrun. Farweld mutters 
about the giant he saw last night, and fears that it signifies 
approaching danger.
Other Members of the Household
ERNALDA , Farrell’s Wife is a quiet, calm contrast to her foul-  
tempered husband. She is descended from wild folk who 
once dwelled in the shadowy valleys of old Rhudaur, and 
never speaks of her past. She is devoted to Farrell and will 
never speak against him.
FARRELL’S SONS:  The elder boy, Farrell the Younger, is con -
vinced that he is more than ready to take over as head of 
the household, and that his father is fit for nothing but 
drinking by the fire and telling stories of the good old 
days. He is married to Poppy, a Woman of Bree, who 
agrees that old Farrell should give the farmstead over to 
her husband. She and Ernalda quarrel bitterly.
His younger brother Farweld is a day- dreamer, 
enchanted by stories of heroes and monsters, but he 
neglects his chores. His father arranged a marriage for Far -
weld to Tulla, Poppy’s younger sister. Tulla hates living here 
in the middle of nowhere and yearns to return to Bree.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 52 =====

CHAPTER 3
48
If an adventurer makes themself known, then Farrell the 
Younger asks them for their counsel — what should Farrell 
do about his stubborn father? The world is becoming darker 
and more dangerous with each passing year, and old Farrell 
will not change. How long should a son wait for his father 
to see sense?
FIRE IN THE VALLEY
While looking out at the dark valley, and the moonlit rib -
bon of the Road, a keen- eyed Player- hero spots a flash of 
flame in the distance — a successful SCAN  roll allows them 
to determine that someone has lit a torch with a flint. The 
light vanishes a moment later, but the character now knows 
the location of the old watchtower.
BAD DREAMS
A sleeping Player- hero has a strange and disturbing dream of 
a great hill, black against a snowy landscape. Somehow, the 
character feels that the hill is getting closer, or larger, like it 
is going to crash down on them or swallow them up, like a 
wave of earth tumbling into a grave… the disturbing dream 
is worth 1 Shadow point (Dread).
The character is not the only person in the farmstead to 
have such a dream; some of the servants are troubled by the 
same vision, as is Farweld. He interprets it as another vision 
of the giant he’s dreamed of before, and wakes in terror, 
screaming for help. His young wife Tulla comforts him, but 
grumbles to anyone nearby that this sort of thing never hap-
pened back home in Bree, and curses the fate that brought 
her to this desolate farmstead.
A SHAPE IN THE DARK
One character (ideally, an Elf) senses an eerie presence that 
troubles their rest. Looking out, they glimpse for a moment 
a shape moving in the valley, and hear a distant howling on 
the cold north wind. A successful AWARENESS  roll lets them 
spot the dark shape descending towards a tangled thicket 
near the road (the location of the ruined tower.)
INTRUDERS!
A Look- out or other watchman spots movement about the 
lower slopes of the hill. A successful AWARENESS  roll ( lose 
(1d) due to the darkness) allows them to distinguish a pair of 
outlaws climbing up. These outlaws do not attempt to enter 
the compound, but instead throw a parcel over the wall to 
land near the main gate. Unless stopped, the dogs fall upon 
the parcel eagerly and devour it. If intercepted, the parcel is 
found to contain a lump of raw meat.
The two intruders flee back down the hill; they can be 
followed back to the ruined tower.
SICK DOGS
If the dogs ate the parcel, then they both fall sick — Osmer 
poisoned the meat. The dogs perish unless a Player- hero suc-
ceeds at a HEALING  roll.
Farrell Awakes
The next morning, Farrell the Elder awakens, much the worse 
for wear. He grumbles about how badly he slept — stupid 
dreams about a dark tower, or a hill, or somesuch. Oh, the 
adventurers are still here? Well, if they want breakfast, they’ll 
have to pay again, given they were no help repelling attackers 
during the night…
FARRELL’S MADNESS
The shadow of the Hill of Fear falls across Farrell 
the Elder in this adventure. His dreams of the 
dark hill — and the growing burden of despair 
that comes with those dreams — may not be 
especially important to the events of Kings of Lit -
tle Kingdoms, but if the Player- heroes return to 
the farmstead in later years, they see the effects 
of the Hill on Farrell. He seems to age faster and 
faster, and is consumed with thoughts of death. 
He grows ever more jealous of the youth of his 
sons, and quarrels with them, until eventually he 
strikes Farrell the Younger while in a drunken stu -
por, killing the young Man. Over time, the other 
members of his household flee one by one, until 
only Farweld remains with his father. The two sit 
up in the dark of the night, listening to whispers 
from the ruined tower…
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 53 =====

KINGS OF LITTLE KINGDOMS
49
Part 4: The Ruined Tower
Not far ahead were dreary hills, rising higher and higher, dark with trees. On some of them 
were old castles with an evil look, as if they had been built by wicked people.
RUMOUR
It’s dangerous to leave the Road. You might fall into some long-  
abandoned cellar or sunken path, and break a leg, and then where 
are you? Lost and alone and meat for Trolls, that’s where! Don’t 
leave the path!
OLD LORE
The borders of the former kingdoms are dotted with ruins of watch-
towers and border forts. The heirs of Elendil grew to mistrust each 
other, and built many castles on their borders as they squabbled over 
territory. Then, war came from Angmar, and they built yet more 
fortifications to defend against the dark hosts of the Witch- king. 
Alas! Many of the secrets of building were lost over the centuries, 
and the Men of the later kingdoms were forced to loot the ancient 
monuments of Arnor for good stone. They tore down palaces and 
tombs to build their little castles, and who knows what things of 
beauty and worth were lost in those dark days?
Background
In the days of Elendil there lived a spear- maiden named Gwen-
daith; she marched to war as part of the Last Alliance, and won 
honour in the battle against the Enemy. She fought in the siege 
of Barad- dûr, and when Anárion was slain, she guarded his body 
so that Orcs and Trolls might not defile it. She returned to the 
North- kingdom after the war, and was one of the counsellors of 
Valandil for a time. She ruled her domain well, and when her 
daughter was of age she gave up her spear and spent her last 
years studying and writing. In time, when her work was done, 
she breathed out her last strength and was laid to rest in a tomb 
built in the fashion of Númenor. This tomb was a monument 
by the Road, a square building of marble that flashed in the 
young sun. Inside, around the carven sarcophagus, were murals 
depicting the deeds of Gwendaith, and travellers came from 
far away to see this wonder. Above, on the upper level of the 
tomb, was a library where travellers could rest and peruse the 
teachings of Gwendaith.
Now, many centuries later, long after the North- kingdom 
was divided, the tomb was left unattended and it became over-
grown. Mud filled the tomb, and the library was looted. Gwen-
daith’s name and deeds were forgotten. When war came, sol-
diers in the service of some petty king found the remains of 
the tomb and said ‘here is good stone and solid foundations, 
built with craft we have forgotten; let us quarry it to make a 
watchtower.’ They discovered the tomb of Gwendaith as they 
did, but her spirit had gone to whatever fate awaits Mortals, 
and no ghost lingered there. The Men of Angmar overran the 
north, and the tower was forgotten once more, and it too fell 
into ruin. Ruin on ruin, that was the fate of the North- kingdom.
Some years ago, the outlaw Osmer found the overgrown 
remains of the tower, and saw that it was a good place to 
ambush travellers on the Road. However, he could not recruit 
more cut- throats to this plan, for it is a superstition among 
many in Eriador that the ruins of the old kingdoms are 
haunted. Osmer’s solution was to masquerade as a Wizard, 
for surely a Wizard could drive away ghosts…
Locations
1. TO THE ROAD
The great East Road (or whatever thoroughfare you’ve sit -
uated the tower near) lies in this direction. From the top 
of the watchtower, approaching travellers can be seen at a 
distance in either direction, but the immediate area around 
the tower is hilly and overgrown, offering plenty of cover for 
stealth or ambush.
2. TO FARRELL’S HOUSE
Farrell’s farmstead lies in this direction.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 54 =====

CHAPTER 3
50
3. TANGLED BRACKEN AND UNDERGROWTH
Fox- paths run through this bracken, so the outlaws can move 
without impediment. Those who don’t know the paths must 
trample through the thorn bushes — all attempts at STEALTH  
lose (1d).
4. OLD WALLS
The walls of the fallen watchtower are made of stone salvaged 
from the old tomb, so in places the stonework is excellent, in 
others less good. Weathered carvings leer from beneath the 
moss. The gaps in the walls are small enough that a single 
fighter could block entry.
5. THE BANDIT CAMP
The bandits — or ‘adventurers’ — make their lair here. There 
are more robbers than Player- heroes (assume two robbers per 
hero). About half the robbers are dark- hearted rogues and 
outlaws (use the stats for Highway Robbers); the others are 
new recruits (use the stats for Footpads), fooled by Osmer into 
running away on an adventure with ‘Gandalf’. Osmer has told 
them that the House of Farrell is actually the fortress of an evil 
Wizard, and that the chickens are actually innocent children 
under a curse. He has also told them that the evil sorcerer can 
enchant people at a distance; if any of the outlaws feel doubt or 
think of leaving, then that’s definitely Farrell trying to ensor-
cel them — and if any of them actually try to leave, then they 
must be under Farrell’s spell, and must be stopped! (So, if poor 
Hamfast or any of the other outlaws tries to leave, they will be 
denounced as thralls of Farrell and attacked!)
Outlaws
Notable outlaws among the Company include:
 ♦ HAMFAST , the young Breelander that the heroes 
were sent to rescue. Impressionable and not that 
bright, Hamfast is only slowly realising that he’s not 
on a heroic quest orchestrated by a Wizard.
 ♦ BREGHEL , an ambitious Ruffian Chief  who considers 
himself Osmer’s right- hand man (for now, at least 
— he will switch sides and attempt to take over the 
band if opportunity arises).
 ♦ TAM, an unlucky Man who suffered a blow to the 
head years ago. His wits are addled, so he is utterly 
convinced that Osmer is a genuine Wizard. He will 
stay loyal to Osmer no matter what. Use the stats for 
a Southerner Raider .
Hamfast
3
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 55 =====

KINGS OF LITTLE KINGDOMS
51
THE RUINED TOWER
2
1
3
3
3
3
4
5
7
8
9
6
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 56 =====

CHAPTER 3
52
6. THE “WIZARD’S” TOWER
Osmer claimed this upper room as his personal domain. Up 
here, he has stashed his ‘wizardly accoutrements’; some jars 
filled with coloured water, a pile of old books that, on exam-
ination, turn out to be old ledgers from the Forsaken Inn  
(The One Ring , page 190), some chalk for inscribing mystic 
diagrams and runes, and a sack of fireworks from Dale, as 
well as the proceeds of previous outlawry (a Lesser Hoard).
Osmer the “Wizard”
Osmer is cursed with intelligence without wisdom, ambi -
tion without determination. He prefers to trick and think 
his way past problems, and believes everyone else is a fool 
who can be tricked or convinced to serve his purposes. 
He always blames others for his failures.
OSMER THE “WIZARD”
Charlatan, Cunning
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
4
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Staff 3 (3/12), Sword 3 (4/16, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Yell of Triumph . Spend 1 Resolve to restore 
1 Resolve to all Evil Men in the fight.
Fireworks!  Spend 1 Resolve to light and shoot Fire -
works. Fireworks cause a Moderate Endurance loss 
from fire to all Player- heroes in Close Combat stance or 
Rearward stance (Lore master’s choice), as per the rules 
on page 134 of The One Ring . Targets who lose at least 
5 Endurance are also set on fire, suffering a Moderate 
Endurance loss at the end of each combat round, unless 
they put out the fire as their main action for the round.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 57 =====

KINGS OF LITTLE KINGDOMS
53
7. THE SUNKEN STAIRS
These stairs lead down to the cellars of the old watchtower. 
To avoid detection by the ‘evil Wizard’, Osmer forbids the 
outlaws to light any fires in the open; if they want to cook 
or stay warm, they have to go down and build a fire in 
the cellar.
8. CELLARS/LOWER TOMB
These cellars once contained the tomb of Gwendaith. The 
slow settling of the land filled the chamber with earth and 
mud, so the old floor is now buried beneath six feet of dirt, 
and what was once a high- ceiling gallery is now cramped. 
The outlaws keep some provisions here, and there’s a fire 
pit near the stairwell. The remains of carvings can be seen 
on the walls, although it’s hard to make out details without 
close examination. With time, it’s possible to remove some 
of the filth and examine the carvings, which depict scenes 
from Gwendaith’s long life.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 58 =====

CHAPTER 3
54
9. THE CASKET OF GWENDAITH
The tomb of the Arnorian hero once stood on display here, 
but is now buried beneath the accumulated dirt of nearly 
three thousand years. Her body was preserved using the arts 
of the ancient Númenóreans, and her casket sealed so her 
remains are still intact.
An evil spirit from the Hill of Fear now inhabits those 
remains. This is a new Wight — not an old Barrow- wight 
from the days of Arthedain, but a fresh horror called up by 
the growing power of the Hill of Fear. For now, it’s still sealed 
in the casket, but it’s digging its way out. Scratch by scratch, 
inch by inch, it digs itself out of the grave to walk the night 
and bring despair to Mortals.
If the Wight is defeated and the grave excavated, a Lesser 
Hoard of grave- goods and ancient Arnorian treasures can be 
found beneath the casket.
LONG-  DEAD GWENDAITH
Cunning, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
1
HATE
5
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Chilling Touch 2 (5/12, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark . All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Dreadful Spells . Spend 1 Hate to make one Player-  
hero gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery). Targets who fail 
their Shadow test or who are Miserable fall unconscious 
and may be roused only with a SONG  roll.
Hate Sunlight . The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Deathless . Spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound; spend 
1 Hate to reset to full Endurance if reduced to 0 Endur -
ance. Ineffective against Player- heroes wielding a Bane 
weapon (Undead).
Heartless . Unaffected by the Intimidate Foe combat 
action, unless a Magical success is obtained.
Thing of Terror . At the start of the first round of the 
battle all Player- heroes in sight of one or more creatures 
with this ability gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). Those 
who fail their Shadow test are daunted and cannot 
spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
Schemes and Trouble
FEARS IN THE NIGHT
The outlaws are afflicted by the same night- terrors and 
dark dreams as the folk of Farrell’s House. They too dream 
of the Hill of Fear, and glimpse strange shapes moving in 
the dark — and, as if in answer, a scratching noise echoes 
from the cellar, like long nails scraping against a buried 
coffin lid…
Osmer — in his persona as “Gandalf” — tries to reas -
sure his followers. “Be not afraid, my good fellows. You’ve got a 
Wizard with you, and there’s no shade or bogeyman that’ll trouble 
the world while I’m around. It’s just bad dreams brought on by 
too much cheese!”
ATTACK ON FARRELL’S HOUSE
The next night, Osmer orders another attack on the tower 
of the evil Wizard Farrell. Two outlaws stay back to guard 
the tower, while the rest head up the hill. It’s a cloudy night 
with little moonlight. If the dogs were successfully poisoned 
(see Intruders!, page 48), then the outlaws can sneak close 
enough under the cover of darkness, they attack and wound 
young Farweld and terrify the servants. The outlaws aren’t 
trying to kill everyone in the House — Osmer wants Farrell 
to surrender and yield over the farmstead to him.
A BARGAIN WITH FARRELL THE YOUNGER
If the adventurers only barely repelled the attack last night, 
then Farrell the Younger travels to the watchtower in secret 
to strike a bargain with Osmer — if they spare the lives of 
everyone at the household, then he’ll serve Osmer. Osmer 
agrees — on condition that Farrell the Younger gives up the 
troublesome adventurers. Farrell the Younger agrees. In this 
case, Hamfast becomes bait for the heroes: Osmer lets Ham-
fast go, and Farrell tells the adventurers where to find the boy, 
knowing the Wight will ambush them as they go in search 
of Hamfast.
THE WIGHT RISES
Also that night, while most of the outlaws are out attacking 
Farrell’s farmstead, the Wight claws its way out of the grave in 
the cellar and kills one of the two guards who stayed to watch 
over the tower, and terrifies the other — he may be found 
shivering in a corner, talking about the ‘ghost’ that came out 
of the cellar. The corpse of the second guard is found on the 
floor of the cellar, arranged with his spear clasped in his hand 
like some fallen hero laid to rest. At the break of dawn, the 
Wight returns to its lair under the earth.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 59 =====

KINGS OF LITTLE KINGDOMS
55
HAMFAST TRIES TO LEAVE
The next morning, a shaken Hamfast mutters that he wants to 
go back to his mother Lucinda. Osmer gives a speech, declar-
ing that the boy has clearly fallen under the malign influence 
of Farrell. He has two of his loyal henchmen tie Hamfast up 
and imprisons him in the cellar for the day.
That afternoon, Osmer conceives a cruel plan. He has the 
idea of using Hamfast as bait to lure the Wight out of the cellar 
— and then up the hill to the House of Farrell. Osmer knows 
next to nothing about Wights, but he has heard tales of the 
Barrow- downs, and believes that Wights hunger for the blood of 
the living. So, he will give the monster all the blood it can drink.
THE THIRD ATTACK
In preparation for the third attack, Osmer sends all but two 
of his brigands off up the hill, ordering them to make ready 
to strike Farrell’s house from the far side. As the sun sets, he 
descends into the cellar and cuts the bonds around Hamfast’s 
feet so the boy can stand. He then cuts Hamfast’s still- bound 
hand and squeezes his blood over the grave. The Wight wakes 
and rises from Gwendaith’s grave.
Osmer and his henchmen then make the terrifying climb 
up the hill, with the Wight stalking them, sniffing the air and 
tasting the trail of blood.
Unless the Player- heroes intercede, then Osmer’s grisly 
plan works — the Wight catches and kills Hamfast, but then 
turns on Farrell and his household. Farrell the Elder is slain, 
and most of the household tries to flee, but they run right 
into the arms of Osmer’s other robbers and are forced to sur-
render. (Osmer abandons his plans to use the ruined watch-
tower as a base for his banditry, but the House of Farrell 
works almost as well.)
Part 5: Homeward Bound
With Hamfast rescued, the Player- heroes can travel back to 
Bree and return him to his family. Lucinda offers no reward 
other than her lifelong gratitude. She confesses that she has 
been worried sick for all the time the Player- heroes have been 
gone. It is not that she thought they would be unable to find 
and rescue her son, but she’s been having such strange, ter-
rible dreams about a dark hill…
Optionally, if the characters capture some of the other 
bandits, they might bring them back too — some of them 
have prices on their heads (if one of these captured rogues 
is Jon- a-Leaping, that can lead right into the adventure Not 
To Strike Without Need).
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 60 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 61 =====

CHAPTER 4
NOT TO STRIKE  
WITHOUT NEED
Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life.  
Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death  
in judgement. For even the very wise cannot see all ends.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 62 =====

CHAPTER 4
58
he land has no king.
Without a king, without law, Men must make 
their own justice, and all too often, it is made not 
with wisdom, but with brute force. In this adven-
ture, the heroes are called upon to bring an outlaw to justice. 
When their prisoner claims to have secret knowledge and a 
higher purpose to his crimes, will the heroes listen?
The adventure begins with the Player- heroes escorting 
to Tharbad a captured criminal known by the name of Jon-  
a-Leaping. On the way, they discover that the criminal was 
also an agent employed by Orothel, a Ranger, forcing the 
heroes to choose between completing their original task 
or aiding her cause. Depending on how events in Tharbad 
unfold, the heroes may then aid Orothel in hunting an 
emissary of the Enemy.
There are several ways this adventure might play out, 
depending on the courage and cunning of the heroes.
The Outlaw and the Rangers
Some necessary backstory, for context: Tharbad (see Ruins 
of the Lost Realm), even in its present dilapidated state, is the 
crossroads of Southern Eriador. When strangers from the 
South or East travel to the North, they pass through the town. 
Some time ago, the Ranger Orothel ( page 23) started to 
suspect that minions of the resurgent Shadow crossed the 
Misty Mountains to make mischief in the land, and that some 
trace of them might be found in Tharbad. However, Rangers 
are not welcome in Tharbad.
Now, the Rangers have a spy in that town — her name 
is Gwilleth, and she is one of Gurnow’s scouts (see Ruins of 
the Lost Realm, page 16). She is closely watched by the other 
brigands and guards loyal to Gurnow, so Orothel forcibly 
recruited an agent who could move freely in and out of the 
watchful town — Orothel captured Jon- a-Leaping and put 
the fear of death in him, telling him that she would kill him 
if he did not serve her. For some months now, Jon has car -
ried messages back and forth between Gwilleth and Orothel.
However, Jon’s fear of being killed by Orothel or by 
Gurnow’s men grew too great for him, and he tried to escape 
by returning to his old habits of thievery. He stole money from 
Gurnow’s house and fled the town…
OTHER ROADS TO ADVENTURE
 ♦ The Player-heroes’ Patron might send them 
to aid Tharbad — and to look in on an old 
friend, the master of the town.
 ♦ Rangers might be sent to aid Orothel, and 
meet her outside Tharbad.
 ♦ Travellers who visit Tharbad might be con -
tracted by Orothel herself.
 ♦ Instead of Borlas, have some friend of the 
Company get detained by the thieves of 
Tharbad; the characters must then hunt 
down the outlaw Jon- a-Leaping to trade for 
their friend’s freedom.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 63 =====

NOT TO STRIKE WITHOUT NEED
59
Part 1: Jon- a-Leaping
This scene can be set in any small community or homestead 
that might plausibly have contact with Tharbad. Bree or Lond 
Daer work equally well.
The Player- heroes arrive to hear angry shouts and sounds 
of argument. A small crowd has gathered on the village green 
(or in the hall, or on the shores — wherever the people gather). 
The crowd are angry, and their wrath is aimed at a Man who 
might look tough and dangerous under other circumstances, 
but here he is clearly a prisoner. Dried blood from a head 
wound encrusts his face and hair. A leader of the community 
(for example, the Reeve of Bree, or Queen Nimue in Lond 
Daer) stands by the wounded Man, appealing for calm.
“He should be killed for what he’s done!” Shouts someone in 
the crowd. “He’s one of them Rangers!” Cries another. “Justice!” 
Shouts a third, and the crowd takes up the cry. “We want justice!”
The leader raises their hands again and calls for quiet. 
“Please! If you take this wretch’s head — and no doubt it is war -
ranted — then what will become of our friend Borlas? Put aside 
your anger and think!” The crowd seems unconvinced by these 
appeals for calm.
Seeing the Player- heroes, the leader seizes on them as a way 
to avoid an ugly confrontation. The leader takes the heroes 
aside and explains that the prisoner is a well- known outlaw, 
a thief and bandit named Jon- a-Leaping. In years 
past he preyed on the people of this area, jump-
ing out of the hedgerow to waylay them on 
the road. He hasn’t been seen in this part 
of the world in a few years, but people 
remember his crimes well. He was cap-
tured by good fortune — a girl gather-
ing firewood found him sleeping, and 
summoned help before he woke.
Now, it’s known (not least through 
Jon’s own protests and threats) that Jon 
is a friend of Captain Gurnow, the ruler of 
Tharbad. And it happens that one of 
the people of this village, a shoe -
maker named Borlas, is languish-
ing in the prisons of that town — 
Borlas did nothing wrong, insists 
the leader. He was charged an 
absurd fee for crossing the ford, 
just so Gurnow could stop him 
from leaving. No doubt Gurnow 
wants to force Borlas to stay in 
Tharbad, he collects talented 
craftsmen like a miser hoards coins.
The only way to free Borlas is to ransom him by exchang-
ing him for Jon- a-Leaping. So, will the heroes bring Jon to 
Tharbad as their prisoner? The leader has little treasure, but 
can offer the gratitude of the community and the promise 
of fine new travelling boots when they bring Borlas home.
The Prisoner
Jon- a-Leaping is sullen and uncooperative when handed into 
the heroes’ custody. He is bound and gagged when first given 
to them; the Player- heroes must decide whether to unbind 
him or carry him all the way to Tharbad. If questioned, Jon 
claims innocence; he says that if he was ever an outlaw, it’s 
all behind him now, and that any suggestion that he’s quar-
relled with Gurnow is nonsense! He’s still fast friends with 
the Master of Tharbad, and anyone who harms Jon will face 
punishment — If the Players- heroes know what’s good for 
them, they’ll cut Jon’s bonds and set him free right away! 
(Should the Company know part of his backstory, see the 
text box Other Roads to Adventure.)
Unless the Player- heroes are ready to believe Jon right 
away, a roll of INSIGHT  suggests that the bandit is not half so 
confident as he seems — his demeanour serves only to hide 
that he is on the verge of panic.
Last but not least, a successful SCAN  roll notices a 
concealed knife strapped to the inside of Jon’s right 
shin pad (something that is also discovered if the 
Player- heroes search the bandit thoroughly).
PLAYING JON- A-LEAPING
A year ago, Jon- a-Leaping was exactly 
the sort of Man he seems at first 
glance — a cruel, uncouth ban -
dit who cares only for his own 
interests, who sees himself as 
a wolf among sheep. Since 
then, however, Jon has dis -
covered that while he may 
be a wolf, there are Wargs 
and Dragons in the world 
too — the Ranger Orothel 
terrified him so badly with 
threats and stories about the 
rising Shadow that she nearly 
broke him, and now he hides 
his fear under bluster and 
threats.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 64 =====

CHAPTER 4
60
Part 2: Journey to Tharbad
All roads in the north lead to the Crossings of Tharbad; there 
is no better place to cross the rushing Greyflood. The trav -
ellers, therefore, can keep to frequently used paths if they 
choose — although that risks running into scouts or brig -
ands loyal to Gurnow. Alternatively, they can strike out cross- 
country to avoid encountering others on the road.
Jon’s demeanour changes as the characters draw closer to 
Tharbad. At first, he was full of threats and wild claims about 
how Gurnow will punish the adventurers. Now, he seems more 
fearful and nervous, although he won’t willingly talk about 
what troubles him.
Should a Player- hero threaten him with a successful AWE 
roll, Jon admits that his bluster about his friendship with 
Gurnow was a lie. He stole from Gurnow in order to escape 
the oppressive regime in Tharbad ( “It’s awful — everyone’s 
watching everyone else, and plotting, and scheming. A man can’t 
breathe there!”). The captain does not tolerate betrayal, so if 
the characters bring Jon back to Tharbad, they are condemn-
ing him to death! And there’s no guarantee that Gurnow will 
honour any bargains made and release Borlas if the charac -
ters do hand Jon over!
If a Player- hero establishes a friendly conversation with 
Jon with a successful ENHEARTEN  roll, or if Jon suspects any 
of the Player- heroes to be a Ranger, then Jon claims that he’s 
working for a Ranger. He does not know her name, but she 
forced him to carry messages in and out of Tharbad. If he 
saw a bonfire or a candle- flame in certain places, he’d know 
there was a letter there for him to fetch. Why, if the characters 
are also allied with the Rangers, then why not let him go? If 
the characters ask him to describe the Ranger, he describes 
her as a “cruel old hag with a strange dagger” . Any Ranger rec -
ognises Orothel from this description.
Meeting Orothel
A three day’s journey outside Tharbad (on whatever route the 
Player- heroes take) is a minor landmark called the Watchful 
Stones. It’s a ring of thirteen standing stones on a low hill. 
Some tales claim they were Trolls caught while dancing in the 
open; others say that they were raised by nameless kings of 
JON-  A-SCAPING
If the characters are not vigilant (or as an event 
during the Journey), then Jon might slip his bonds 
and escape, or take one of the Company hostage 
with his hidden knife (if he still has it). If Jon does 
flee, then the characters can follow his trail with 
a HUNTING  roll that leads them to the Watchful 
Stones.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 65 =====

NOT TO STRIKE WITHOUT NEED
61
Men in the Dark Years. Those with LORE  know, however, that 
the ring was made by the Elves of Hollin long ago, and that 
Elf- princes feasted under the stars in better times.
As the characters approach the stones, they see a campfire 
burning on the hilltop. Jon- a-Leaping is terrified by the sight 
— it’s the signal that the Rangers want to meet him there. He 
alternates between begging that the heroes take him there, 
and despairing that all his fates are dire and they should 
bring him to Tharbad so he can throw himself at Gurnow’s 
feet and beg for mercy.
(If the characters ignore the beacon fire and continue on, 
then Orothel follows them the next day, and confronts them 
on the road outside Tharbad.)
Waiting in the middle of the Watchful Stones is the ranger 
Orothel. She’s angry that she’s camped here for five nights 
without any response from Jon, and even angrier that he 
hasn’t come alone. Her anger extends to the Player- heroes, 
unless any of them are Elves or fellow Rangers, or unless they 
already met her in another adventure.
Jon whimpers and refuses to look at Orothel while in 
her presence.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 66 =====

CHAPTER 4
62
THE STORY OF OROTHEL
Angrily, Orothel tells her story and explains her involve -
ment with Jon. She is a Ranger, a protector of travellers in 
the wild, and keeps watch for things of shadow. She cap -
tured that wretch Jon when he was an outlaw, and put him 
to better use as a messenger. But she hasn’t heard anything 
from Jon in some months, and came here to make con -
tact with him — this is one of their pre- arranged meeting 
places. She has a friend in Tharbad who likely has news 
for her — she needs Jon to return to the town and make 
contact with her friend.
Orothel becomes infuriated when she discovers that Jon 
has ruined his use as a courier by stealing from Gurnow, 
and grows angrier still as she learns that Jon fled Tharbad 
and returned to his old life as a brigand. She draws Dragon-  
tooth (her enchanted dagger) and threatens to end Jon on 
the spot. (Orothel is tired and burdened by Shadow, but 
not so far gone that she would murder the wretch — she 
might, however, scare him so badly that he goes a- leaping 
and a- yelping into the wild and is never seen again in this 
part of the world.)
Orothel is reluctant to discuss her ally in Tharbad; the 
ally’s identity is known only to her, and not even Jon- a-Leaping 
knows who the Ranger spy is — they communicate through 
signs and signals, and Jon knows where to look to find written 
letters left by the spy. If any of the Player- heroes are Rangers 
of good repute, or if they’ve convinced Orothel of their wor-
thiness, then Orothel reveals that the spy in Tharbad is none 
other than her own daughter Gwilleth, who has infiltrated 
Gurnow’s household as one of his scouts.
Gwilleth’s position is precarious, and she cannot afford 
to give herself away, hence the ruse of using wretched Jon- a-
Leaping. If the Company offers to help Orothel and Gwilleth, 
she instructs them on how to contact her daughter in Thar -
bad (see Part 5: The Ranger Spy, on page 68).
WHERE TO NOW?
How do the Player- heroes proceed from here?
 ♦ The characters could hand Jon over to Orothel, and 
see if the brigand returns with the message. However, 
this does mean abandoning their original purpose of 
trading Jon for the imprisoned shoemaker Borlas — 
and it also means trusting Jon, who has already proven 
himself dishonourable.
 ♦ They could reject the Ranger’s plea out of hand, and 
continue with their original plan of trading Jon for the 
shoemaker.
 ♦ The characters could agree to enter Tharbad them-
selves and make contact with the Ranger spy. Again, 
though, they must decide what to do with Jon — do 
they take the brigand to the rough justice of Gurnow, 
or leave him to Orothel, or have him serve as a guide 
to Tharbad?
 ♦ They could try rescuing Borlas themselves. The shoe-
maker is imprisoned in the dungeons of Garth Tauron, 
the mostly- abandoned castle in the heart of town.
CONFUSING KINDNESS AND BLINDNESS
If the characters choose to trust Jon, either as a guide 
or by sending him alone into Tharbad, then roll the Feat 
die to determine whether or not he betrays them. As a 
baseline, assume that Jon- a-Leaping stays true on a 8+, 
and all other results mean he betrays the heroes and 
Orothel to Gurnow. For every good deed or kindness 
the heroes showed Jon, add one to the roll.
 ♦ If Jon stays true, he returns to the Watchful Stones 
a few days later with a message from Gwilleth — 
skip onto Part 6: The Hunt for Déor .
 ♦ If Jon betrays the characters, then he claims that 
the Player- heroes and Orothel forced him to steal 
from Gurnow, and that they sent him back to steal 
more treasure from Tharbad. Gurnow dispatches 
some of his guards, commanded by his son 
Tharnow, to deal with the miscreants lurking in 
the Watchful Stones. (And to ensure the intruders 
don’t escape, he sends his best tracker, Gwilleth, 
to lead the hunt…)
If this comes to pass, use the Southerner Raider  sta -
tistics ( The One Ring , page 146) for Tharnow’s guards, 
while Tharnow himself counts as a Southerner Cham -
pion. Assume there are three guards per Player- hero, 
plus Tharnow. Clever heroes may sneak away rather than 
engage in a perilous battle.
Alternatively, especially if Jon’s been eavesdrop -
ping on the Player-heroes’ conversations with Orothel, 
he might betray Gwilleth to Gurnow, causing her to be 
thrown into Garth Tauron.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 67 =====

NOT TO STRIKE WITHOUT NEED
63
Entering Tharbad
Tharbad is a rotten, soggy town. A generation ago, floods 
washed out the heart of Tharbad, and what’s left shambles 
on, decaying ever faster now. There’s an undeniable feeling 
of desperation in the town, a sense that no- one can be trusted 
and everyone’s out to rob you. Only a fraction of the town’s 
many ancient buildings are inhabited, but somehow the empty 
windows seem as watchful as the ones from which suspicious 
townsfolk glare at newcomers. Guards unsubtly direct new arriv-
als towards the Bridge Inn (Ruins of the Lost Realm, page 13) in 
the shadow of the fortress and the ruined bridge, and also draw 
their attention to the copies of the Rules posted everywhere.
If the characters have visited Tharbad before, they know 
their way around the town — and know that while Thar -
bad is unwelcoming and dangerous, it’s not a bastion of the 
Enemy either.
However, if this is their first time in the town of thieves, 
then play up the paranoia. Tharbad is in the iron grip of a 
gang of cut- throats with a thin veneer of civility; scratch that 
surface, and they scratch back.
 ♦ If the characters openly have Jon- a-Leaping with them 
(as opposed to concealing his identity with a hooded 
cloak or other disguise), then the guards recognise the 
thief and demand that the characters proceed straight 
to Gurnow’s court at the Red Palace.
 ♦ Otherwise, they still get invited to the Red Palace 
if they seem like dangerous armed adventurers, or 
if they ask to see Gurnow. The characters only get 
ignored if they seem like just a band of humble travel-
lers, not worth the effort of robbing — and even then, 
they are still watched…
RESCUING BORLAS
Alas, poor Borlas. The shoemaker travelled to the market 
at Tharbad to buy fur and leather for his workshop and 
ran afoul of a ‘rule’ that one of the guards invented on the 
spot, demanding a tax on any furs carried across the ford. 
When Borlas could not pay, he was thrown in prison. He 
could obtain his freedom by agreeing to live in Tharbad — 
but that would be exchanging one prison for another, as he 
knows he’d be forced to dwell on the isolated Middle Island 
in the river, and his movement would still be dictated by 
Gurnow’s guards.
So, for now, Borlas refuses to give in, and languishes in 
prison.
 ♦ There are two likely ways for the heroes to rescue Bor-
las; by convincing Gurnow to free the shoemaker (in 
Part 3: An Audience with Gurnow), or by breaking into 
the dungeon of Garth Tauron (see Part 4: The Fortress 
of Garth Tauron).
Part 3: An Audience 
With Gurnow
The Master of Tharbad takes a keen interest in everyone who 
passes through his town — and an especially keen interest in 
bands of armed strangers — so he invites the Player- heroes 
to attend his court soon after they arrive. And if those armed 
strangers have brought a prisoner for trade, well now! That 
warrants a place at Gurnow’s table at court!
Gurnow’s court is a rough affair. His wife, the aristocratic 
Lady Stock, tries to maintain some decorum, but her hus -
band’s henchmen are mostly brigands and brutes, and it’s 
a rare night in the Red Palace that passes without a knifing. 
Gurnow’s court is described more fully in  Ruins of the Lost 
Realm, page 14, but the key characters present include:
 ♦ CAPTAIN GURNOW, MASTER OF THARBAD: A former 
bandit chief who took over the town. Gurnow’s a petty 
warlord. He’s surprisingly insightful and cunning for 
someone who thrived on violence.
 ♦ LADY STOCK: Gurnow’s wife and mother of his children. 
A Noblewoman of the town who clings to the dream of 
bringing back Tharbad’s glory days when it was the last 
remnant of the old kingdoms. Lady Stock hates Rang-
ers, believing them to be meddling troublemakers.
 ♦ GURNOW’S LARGELY INTERCHANGEABLE SONS, the 
eldest of whom is the brutal Tharnow.
 ♦ Lurking in the shadows are more henchmen, includ-
ing the secret ranger Gwilleth and ambitious watch 
lieutenant Tom Brass, who’s always on the look- out for 
ways to curry favour with the Master.
 ♦ Other members of the court include a collection of 
miserable artisans, scholars and assorted worthies that 
Gurnow has trapped in Tharbad by threatening their 
families or imposing upon them punitive fees for leav-
ing the town.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 68 =====

CHAPTER 4
64
Jon’s Fate
The meeting with Gurnow plays out as a Council. Set the 
Resistance by determining what the Player- heroes want from 
the Master of Tharbad.
 ♦ A reasonable request (Resistance 3) might be: ask-
ing for a reward for bringing back Jon, convincing 
Gurnow that they are just ordinary travellers of little 
interest or importance.
 ♦ A bold request (Resistance 6) might be: buying Borlas’ 
freedom in exchange for bringing back Jon.
 ♦ An outrageous request (Resistance 9) might be: asking 
that Gurnow forgive Jon, asking that Gurnow release 
Borlas for free.
Since the characters brought Jon- a-Leaping back to Gurnow, 
the attitude of the Captain of the Haven towards the Company 
is set at Open (no modifier to all rolls during Interaction).
If not convinced otherwise, Gurnow intends to publicly 
execute Jon — Tharbad is a city of law, and the most import -
ant law is “don’t steal from the Master”. If Jon is given over to 
Gurnow, then he has him thrown in prison and announces 
that he will be executed at dawn. (The traditional method of 
execution under Gurnow, by the by, is to be hung from the 
ruined bridge and lowered into the running waters of the 
Greyflood to drown.)
If the Player- heroes leave Jon to this fate, then he has 
nothing left to lose — Jon can buy mercy by revealing to 
Gurnow that there are Ranger spies operating under his 
nose. He cannot identify Gwilleth, but he can point to the 
Player- heroes and Orothel as “threats to Gurnow’s rule”. If 
the characters bargain for Jon to be spared, then he is better 
disposed towards them and may not betray them.
Part 4: The Fortress 
of Garth Tauron
But now their havens became fortresses, holding wide coastlands in submission…
RUMOUR
Why, that’s the king’s castle. Which king? I don’t rightly know. 
But it’s all rotted inside, and less than a tenth is usable. Why, 
half those grand towers will come toppling down next time there’s 
a storm. That’s why the Master uses it as a prison — if the tow -
ers come down and squash a prisoner, then it saves on the cost 
of burying him.
OLD LORE
Garth Tauron — the Fortress of the Woods. Long ago, it is said 
there was a great forest from the mountains of Lune to the Gap of 
Rohan. Tree- hungry were the Mariners of Númenor, and they felled 
those woods for ship- building. They built mighty Garth Tauron here 
at the river- crossing to guard their foresters. An Age or more has 
passed since then, and the fortress endured — but here we are at 
the end of its days, and most likely the end of all things.
WATCHERS IN THARBAD
The thieves of Tharbad are always watchful for 
opportunities for profit. A traveller who passes 
through the town may pay a few pennies to cross 
the ford or stay in the Bridge Inn, but a traveller who 
trespasses in some way can be arrested and fined 
— and Gurnow rewards those who report trouble.
So, if a character badly fails a skill roll while in 
Tharbad, assume that the character has broken one 
of Tharbad’s many laws and customs, and so the 
many watchers have a reason to detain that char -
acter if they get the opportunity. A lone ‘criminal’ 
is safe enough as long as they are with the rest 
of the Player- heroes, but if that character goes 
off on their own, they may be waylaid by ambi -
tious rogues. (Use the Footpad  statistics found on 
page 147 of The One Ring .) If most of the Com -
pany are troublemakers, then Gurnow’s guards are 
dispatched to take them into custody (again, use 
Footpad  statistics led by a Ruffian Chief ).
If the characters are suspected of being 
Ranger spies, then they do not even need to break 
Gurnow’s Rules to be arrested. Captured charac -
ters are thrown into the dungeons of Garth Tauron.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 69 =====

NOT TO STRIKE WITHOUT NEED
65
Background
Garth Tauron is an ancient fortress; the foundations of this 
place were laid in the Second Age. Many kings have passed 
by since then, and it seemed like every one of them was eager 
to add some tower or bastion or parapet to the castle — until 
the last king, and the castle is now slowly crumbling. Today, 
only portions of the sprawling castle are usable. In other parts, 
one unwary step could send an intruder crashing through a 
rotten floorboard, or topple some precarious tower, its foun-
dations gnawed away by floodwaters.
Part of the fortress stands on a rocky outcrop by the riv -
erbank, although later sections extend away from the waters 
to the north and west. The fortress has been many things in 
its long history — a watchtower, a military fortress, a counting 
house for tribute, and latterly a great palace, then a rotting one, 
and now at last a prison. The fortress walls are riddled with 
wounds and scars, and sagely locals insist that one particular 
breach in the walls was made by Sauron himself, in the War of 
the Elves and Sauron more than 4,000 years ago. (This is, of 
course, nonsense — while Garth Tauron was attacked in that 
ancient war, nothing of the fortress of that era survives, bar 
some deep- rooted foundations and a few stones. Most of the 
present fortress is of much newer construction, from either the 
last years of the Second Age or the first half of the Third). Of 
late, though, the fortress suffers much more from neglect and 
quarrying than the attacks of the Enemy. Half the houses in the 
north quarter of Tharbad use cut stone taken from the fortress 
walls and towers, and most of the decorative stonework in the 
‘new keep’ was removed to the Master’s Palace centuries ago.
Today, less than a tenth of the sprawling fortress is in use. 
Gurnow uses the place as his grand prison, incarcerating his 
enemies and debtors in rooms scattered throughout the land-
ward portion of Garth Tauron. Some of the cells are dank 
pits that flood when the river is high; others are once- grand 
chambers where lords and kings formerly gathered.
Sneaking into Garth Tauron is not at all difficult — the 
fortress has many unguarded doors, and even more holes 
in the walls. The tricky parts of any rescue attempt is find -
ing where in this massive hulk of rotting stone a particular 
prisoner is kept, navigating the few safe routes through the 
crumbling stonework, and avoiding the guards.
Locations
1. THE OLD KEEP
The oldest part of the fortress. The old keep is on the brink 
of collapse in many places, and the upper levels are especially 
unstable. Gurnow’s henchmen stay well away from the old 
keep — partly out of fear of the old ghosts that are said to 
haunt the fortress, but mainly because of the danger of falling 
masonry. Despite its decrepitude, the keep is still a magnif -
icent structure — the largest work of the ancients between 
Annúminas and Isengard. Much of the keep’s stone has been 
quarried, and a scaffolding supports the eastern wall. Smash-
ing this scaffold could cause an extensive collapse.
2. THE NEW KEEP
Built in the failing days of the Kingdom, the New Keep was 
intended as a replacement when maintaining the rotting Old 
Keep proved too expensive. Now, the New Keep too is a rot -
ting relic of elder days, but parts are still used by Gurnow as a 
garrison and gaol. Guards stationed here patrol the northern 
part of town, while troublemakers in the market or drunken 
oafs who disrupt Gurnow’s court are thrown into cells here. 
Long- term prisoners (like Borlas, page 67) are kept in the 
dungeons of the Old Keep.
3. FIVE TOWERS
These towers, albeit similar in structure, were built at dif -
ferent times over the centuries, and each one reflects the 
skills and resources available to the builders at the time. The 
Arnorian- built towers are magnificent and steady; the ones 
built by the kings of Cardolan are still good, but look like a 
pale imitation of their elders; the sole tower built since the 
fall of the North- kingdom is best not talked about. Walkways 
and perilous rope bridges connect the towers.
4. MOAT
An ancient canal, green with scum and weeds, protects the 
fortress. There are several culverts allowing boats to be rowed 
into underground chambers beneath Garth Tauron; these 
were used by smugglers in the past.
5. THE GIBBET WALK
This path atop the River- gate was clearly visible from the old 
bridge, and can also be seen by any boats on the river or 
travellers heading to the town market. Therefore, Gurnow 
uses the walk for executions and the display of prisoners. 
Troublemakers may be dragged up here and put in stocks 
for the entertainment of the mob; enemies of Gurnow may 
be beheaded and their remains put on spikes.
6. THE QUARRY- YARD
This wide courtyard is where stones taken from the fortress are 
stored and cleaned before being put to use. The masons of 
today can no longer cut stone as smoothly or as well as those 
of old, nor can the sculptors match the works of the ancients. 
The quarry- yard is always busy with sweating labourers by day; 
by night, it resembles a graveyard for giants.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 70 =====

CHAPTER 4
66
7. THE GAOLER’S HOUSE
The position of gaoler of Garth Tauron is a sinecure, an easy 
job granted to henchmen and allies of Gurnow. The current 
gaoler is an arrogant fellow named Valandur, a cousin of 
Gurnow’s highborn wife. The gaoler’s house is a fine house, 
built of stone taken from the fortress. Previously, the gaoler 
was assigned rooms in the New Keep, but the roof there 
leaks ever since the floods of 2912.
Technically, the gaoler of Garth Tauron is also the master 
of the fortress — making Valandur the current holder of an 
office more than four thousand years old. No- one knows if 
the jewelled rod of office held by the gaoler is the original 
symbol of authority granted to the first master of Garth 
Tauron in the days of Númenor, but it is certainly 
hundreds of years old.
THE FORTRESS  
OF GARTH TAURON
1
2
3
3
7
3
6
3
4
5
4
3
9
8
10
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 71 =====

NOT TO STRIKE WITHOUT NEED
67
Valandur
Valandur belongs to one of the old families of Tharbad, 
who pride themselves on their descent from the Sea-  
kings of old. The blood of Númenor flows through these 
veins, declares Valandur, even though he has only the haz -
iest idea what Númenor was. His appointment as Gaoler 
(although he becomes infuriated whenever anyone calls 
him a mere gaoler — he is Master of Garth Tauron, keeper 
of the fortress of the crossings) was a sop to those aristo -
cratic families so they could continue to tolerate the pres -
ence of a bandit king as Captain. Valandur spends his days 
preening and trying to convince his slovenly guards to 
behave like Arnorian soldiers. He augments the small sti -
pend that comes with the title of gaoler by taking bribes 
from prisoners and their families — a prisoner may not be 
released without the permission of Captain Gurnow, but 
a prisoner can be moved to more salubrious accommo -
dation, or given better food, or permitted the liberty of 
the castle grounds.
OCCUPATION:  Actually, a gaoler
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Greedy, Proud
8. THE DUNGEONS OF GARTH TAURON
The cellars and dungeons of the fortress are a labyrinth of 
tunnels, gnawing through the rocky foundations and off to 
the north and west, following subterranean streams and cav-
erns. Water is a constant presence here, as the river floods the 
lowest chambers of the dungeons regularly. The low- ceilinged 
cells are also drowned in complete darkness, adding to the 
grim atmosphere of the place.
Captain Gurnow orders his men to throw the most dan -
gerous prisoners to rot in the lowest dungeons, with only a 
lucky few finding their accommodation on the upper stories 
above the waterline (of course, the Captain decides whether 
a prisoner is more dangerous than another…).
9. BORLAS’ CELL
Borlas’ cell is in the lower dungeons. He has promised to 
make Valandur a fine pair of boots, in exchange for the gaoler 
moving him to a cell on the upper levels. Valandur has not 
moved the cobbler yet, but he has at least told the guards to 
make sure that Borlas does not catch a chill or drown. There-
fore, if the river waters start to flood the lower cells, or if it 
starts to rain heavily, the guards move Borlas to one of the 
drier cells on the upper levels of the old keep.
Borlas
Poor Borlas the cobbler never meant to be caught up in the 
intrigues of bandit kings and spies, of Rangers and ancient 
spirits of fear. He is just an ordinary cobbler — a very good 
cobbler, to be fair. He attends to his shoe- making and 
leather- working with an almost Dwarven devotion to the 
craft, and strives to ignore the wider world except as it 
relates to boots.
Ironically, this is not the first time Borlas has been 
caught up in strange events. As a young shoe- maker’s 
apprentice, he was employed to repair the very fancy 
walking boots of a Dwarf named Thorin Oakenshield, and 
while waiting for the boots to be finished, Thorin met by 
chance a wandering Wizard. On another occasion, he was 
employed to carve wooden shoes for a poor maimed Hob -
bit. And why, just as soon as he gets out of this prison cell, 
he has a curious commission to fulfil in Bree, for some 
eccentric fellow who wants a pair of bright yellow boots.
While happy to be rescued, Borlas gives a running 
litany of complaints about the state of whatever footwear 
the Player- heroes provide him with. Borlas is regrettably 
slow and clumsy; if the characters have to flee or sneak 
with him in tow, their rolls lose (1d) .
OCCUPATION:  Cobbler
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Meek, Meticulous
10. TREASURE- ROOM
This secret vault is hidden deep in the dungeons, in a chamber 
that is almost always flooded except in days of drought. Hid-
den in the mud is a sealed chest. It is Gurnow’s secret trove; 
if events in Tharbad ever turn against him and all his better- 
known hoards are taken from him, he will drag this chest out 
of the mud and flee town. The chest contains a Lesser Hoard.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 72 =====

CHAPTER 4
68
Schemes and Troubles
RESCUING A PRISONER
The dungeons of Garth Tauron are not especially secure. There 
are a dozen ways to move unseen through the old ruin with 
STEALTH , and the only significant obstacles are the recently 
repaired and sturdy doors ( CRAFT  or ATHLETICS  to force 
open) — and, of course, the sentries. However, the sheer size 
of the fortress does make it hard to find the right prison cell. 
There are hundreds of rooms in the fortress that might be 
used as cells, and they are scattered over the whole Old Keep 
and its extensive cellars. Would- be rescuers must EXPLORE  the 
ruin to find their quarry, or observe guards with HUNTING  and 
watch their movements when they bring food to the prisoners.
Borlas is held in the lower sections of the dungeon, but is 
moved to a higher cell if it rains. This may be advantageous 
to the heroes (no need to break into the cell — just ambush 
the guards as they escort Borlas) or a regrettable complica -
tion (Borlas’ cell is empty — he has been moved elsewhere! 
And now this cell is flooding!)
In addition to Borlas, the gaol currently houses a dozen 
prisoners. Most are just citizens of Tharbad who have crossed 
Gurnow in some fashion, but there might be travellers from 
afar or suspicious strangers of interest to the heroes.
If Gwilleth is captured, then she too is kept in the lower 
dungeon — but she is manacled to the wall, and a watch 
kept on her cell both night and day, as Gurnow knows how 
dangerous she can be.
RAISING THE ALARM
Gurnow’s guards are often drunk and not especially watchful. 
(Yet again, use Footpad statistics). However, if they discover 
that a prisoner has escaped, they rouse the townsfolk by blow-
ing loudly on horns — and every rogue in Tharbad is eager 
to recapture an escaped prisoner.
Valandur himself and his most trusted guards are more 
of a threat (again use the Southerner Raider statistics (The 
One Ring, page 146) for the guards, while Valandur himself 
counts as a Southerner Champion).
GHOSTS OF GARTH TAURON
It is said that Garth Tauron has a hundred ghosts, but three 
are of particular note.
First, there is the Owl, a curious entity that lives among 
the crumbling rooftops of the fortress. The guards believe 
it to be a vampiric ghost; in truth, it is a prisoner who was 
driven to madness during her long incarceration in the lower 
dungeons, and though she escaped her cell in a storm, she 
dares not leave. She has forgotten human speech, and scav -
enges from the castle and the streets nearby to survive. She 
also descends to the river to fish on moonlit nights.
Second, there is the Singing Stone of Eregion. This was 
a gift from the Noldorin Elves of Eregion to the ancient lord 
of Tharbad, and was stored and forgotten in the cellars of 
Garth Tauron centuries ago. The stone holds the echoes of 
ancient Elven singers who passed away West long ago, and 
when starlight touches it through an air shaft, it awakens and 
sings. The singing stone is believed to be the ghost of an Elf- 
maiden by the superstitious guards.
The third ghost is a genuine horror — many years ago, or 
so the tale goes, a slimy creature once crawled from the Ghost 
Pit (Ruins of the Lost Realm, page 11) and took refuge from the 
sunlight in the dungeons of the fortress. Prisoners are warned 
that if they try to escape, “the thing in the dark” will eat them.
Part 5: The Ranger Spy
Orothel tells the Player- heroes that her agent in Tharbad 
leaves messages by means of candles. There are many empty 
buildings in the town; if the agent ( Gwilleth) leaves a can -
dle burning in the window of a ruined house by night, then 
she has hidden a letter in that ruin for Jon (or another cou -
rier) to collect.
The superstitious folk of Tharbad believe that these eerie 
lights signify the presence of ghosts, and stay away from them. 
And they are wise to do so — Tharbad was besieged by the 
forces of the Enemy long ago, and the town’s spirit is still 
scarred. Strange things move in Tharbad by night...
Finding the Letter
If the Company is looking for the Ranger spy, a SCAN  roll is 
required to spot the candle at night; the Player-heroes can try 
again on subsequent nights. (If Jon- a-Leaping is with them, 
then there is no need to roll, as he knows just where to look.) 
The longer the characters linger, the more likely circumstances 
will turn against them and they’ll have to flee Gurnow’s min-
ions — or that Gwilleth’s duplicity is discovered, and she is 
imprisoned in Garth Tauron. Note that there’s a curfew in 
Tharbad, so it’s forbidden for anyone to be out after dark with-
out permission from the Master.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 73 =====

NOT TO STRIKE WITHOUT NEED
69
Gwilleth has been waiting for weeks to get a message out, 
so a delay of another day or so is not a grave concern. Once 
the characters identify the deserted house on the south side of 
the river, they need to sneak there to recover the letter. Gwil-
leth concealed her letter inside an old chimney. The letter is 
obviously unsigned (it is a poor spy who signs their secret mes-
sages with their own name…), and was clearly written in haste.
The letter describes a suspicious traveller from the south 
named Déor, who claimed to be a Man of Rohan. The spy 
calls for the other Rangers to watch this stranger. The letter 
is dated a month ago.
Brethren,
Of note: a traveller on the Road named Déor, a stranger to these 
lands, who claimed to hail from Rohan. He arrived in Tharbad with 
only scanty belongings save for a fine walking stick of blackthorn, 
travelling on foot, and stayed at the Road- house. He spoke little, but 
I marked that he listened closely. After a week in town, he departed 
up the river Glanduin, and returned a month later, much the worse 
for wear, and complaining muchly of the marshes at Swanfleet.
I saw him again in the company of some Dwarves, and they 
departed together, following the valley of the river into Eregion. The 
Dwarves returned without Déor, and they seemed to me to be bur -
dened with great sorrow. The Dwarves set off north along the Road. 
One was named Flonar; I do not know the name of his companion.
Now, Déor returned alone some days later, burdened by a heavy 
sack. He spoke long with Captain Gurnow and Lady Stock; about 
what, I cannot say. Déor bought a boat and set off north along the 
Greyflood, and I noted that his boat sat very low in the water.
It may be that Déor and the Dwarves found treasure in the 
mountains, and nothing more. But I thought it strange they did 
not return together, and what business he has in the Lone- lands, 
I cannot guess.
Return to Orothel
Orothel the Ranger waits at the Watchful Stones (although if 
the Player- heroes need rescuing, she could enter the town to 
aid their escape). When they return with the letter from her 
spy, she snatches it from them and reads it swiftly, then gives 
it to the Player- heroes to read before burning it.
“An odd tale — but she would not have sent this message unless 
she thought it important. Curse that wretch Jon! If he had not strayed 
from his task, I would have had this information four weeks ago! 
Now this Déor is far gone into lands where even a Ranger would be 
hard- pressed to find the trail — but I must try. Several hunters may 
have better luck than one alone — will you help me?”
If the Player- heroes agree, the hunt for Déor begins. 
(Should they refuse, perhaps preferring to bring Borlas back 
home, then Orothel goes alone. See Orothel’s Fate, page 71).
DÉOR’S MISSION
Gwilleth was right to be suspicious — Déor was a spy 
from Mordor.
Sauron does not fear the Men of Eriador, for he broke 
their strength long ago, when he defeated Arnor and its 
successor kingdoms. All that remains are a few scattered 
settlements of little import. But even an irrelevant farmer 
or inn- keeper in Bree might know something useful, and 
the Wild Men who dwell in the mountains of Angmar might 
be recruited as fodder for the wars — Déor’s task was to 
use gold to corrupt the spirits of the people of Eriador.
But he doomed himself through carelessness.
Déor was supposed to meet with Orcs from Mordor in 
the hills near Moria. Long ago, the Orcs looted the treasur -
ies of the Dwarves — it was intended that Déor would take 
a portion of this stolen gold and put it to use in the service 
of the Enemy. However, while Déor was able to follow 
the Road up from the Gap of Rohan and thence into the 
north, he stumbled when he left the path: the marshes of 
Swanfleet defeated him, and he had to return to Tharbad.
In Tharbad, he met some Dwarves who were heading 
up into the mountains of Moria on their own quest, and he 
accompanied them. In doing so, he doomed both himself 
and the Dwarves, for the Mordor Orcs are under orders to 
hide their presence at all costs. At first, it seemed as though 
all went well — Déor parted company with the Dwarves 
and climbed up the Redhorn Pass, where he met the Orcs 
he sought and was given a sack of gold. He returned to 
Tharbad and met with Gurnow, giving him some gold as 
a gift — and the promise of more, in days to come.
It was only later that the Orcs discovered that Déor had 
brought foes to their very doorstep — and worse, these 
Dwarves knew a secret way into Moria! If the Dwarves con-
tinued to poke around, they might discover the presence 
of the Mordor Orcs in the north. Infuriated, and fearful that 
Déor might reveal their presence to more enemies like the 
hated Elves, they hunted him down and murdered him, 
and set a trap for anyone who might come after him. (They 
arranged too for the destruction of the Dwarves, as will be 
described in Wonder of the Northern World , page 73.)
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 74 =====

CHAPTER 4
70
Part 6: The Hunt for Déor
Hoping to avoid watchers on the North- South Road, and bur-
dened by his sack of treasure, Déor took a small boat out of 
Tharbad, laboriously rowing against the current. The Grey -
flood is a slow and lazy river for some of its length, but as it 
approaches the confluence with the Hoarwell, it runs swifter. 
Any character with knowledge of the region can guess that 
Déor would abandon his boat at some point south of the Angle.
Indeed, in the shadow of a wooded area, the Company 
finds Déor’s boat drawn up and hidden in the underbrush. 
The lands around the Angle are Ranger- country, and if Déor 
has not been spotted by any of Orothel’s kinfolk, then he 
must have turned aside.
The Lore master should now call for a roll of HUNTING . 
Pass or fail, the Player-  heroes discover signs that a traveller 
struck out north- east, following the fast- flowing Loudwater 
through the wild and trackless foothills of the mountains. If 
they succeed, however, they also find traces of Orcs following 
the same path. They are not the only people hunting Déor.
The Ambush
After a few days’ journey, the characters spot something flut-
tering on a hilltop, like a black flag. Approaching, they dis -
cover that it is a cloak, pinned to the ground with a broken 
blackthorn walking stick. Lying there is the corpse of Déor. 
He’s been dead for some days; flies and maggots infest his 
rotting flesh.
When anyone touches the corpse of Déor, the corpse’s 
eyes flicker open and its dead hand flashes out to grab hold 
of the nearest Player- hero, clutching with an iron grip.
The horror of seeing a dead body awaken is worth 2 
points of Shadow (Dread); for the grabbed character, 
it is a 3 points gain.
As the dead Déor holds on, his lips move soundlessly, and 
dark clouds suddenly gather over the hillside. Keen- eared 
characters hear wailing on the wind — the same wailing they 
heard on the Isle of the Mother. Spirits are abroad, called 
from the dark place under the Hill of Fear to trouble the wak-
ing world once more. This time, the spirits do not conjure a 
storm, but weave a cloud so thick and dark it blocks out the 
sun, plunging the hills into deep shadow.
Then, as suddenly as it came to life, Déor’s body returns 
to its deathly stiffness, as Orcs emerge howling in counter -
point to the spirits in the air. They crawl out of gullies and 
cave- mouths, and come loping down from the heights. Some 
of them circle around the base of the hill, aiming to cut off 
any line of retreat; others swarm up the slope to attack the 
heroes. All these are mountain Orcs, Goblins from the Misty 
Mountains. “Don’t let them escape”, cries one in Orkish, “Kill 
the Elf- lickers and the Tarks before they give us away!”
BATTLING THE ORCS
The Orc- host consists of a mix of Goblin Archers and Orc 
Soldiers — assume 2 Archers and 1 Soldier per hero, plus 
an Orc- chieftain in command. They all suffer from the Hate 
Sunlight drawback, but the unnatural cloud cover overhead 
protects them.
A Magical success on an Intimidate Foe attempt using 
the sword Estelang could banish the spirits and break 
the clouds; Player- heroes might accomplish a similar 
feat using a fiery arrow or another magical item.
If Orothel is present, she strings her bow and looses a hail of 
arrows at the Orcs, targeting the ones attempting to encir -
cle the base of the hill; Player- heroes gain (1d) on all attack 
rolls, and any attempt to withdraw from combat is Favoured.
AFTER THE BATTLE
Once the Orcs are defeated, the heroes may search the hill -
side and the surrounding area. Examining Déor’s body and 
the traces left on the hilltop suggest he was captured by the 
Orcs and questioned before he was killed — there are still 
the marks left by ropes around his wrists, and his throat was 
cut with a single knife- wound suggesting an execution, not 
a struggle. There’s no sign of his belongings on the hillside, 
and it’s clear that his corpse was left out in the open as a lure.
In a shallow cave nearby, the Player- heroes find the rem-
nants of the Orc- camp. The Orcs have not been here long, 
for the cave is not fortified and does not have the Orc- stink 
about it. The Orcs have travelling- gear and some little sup -
plies, but not much; at a guess, they left their lair in haste, 
stalked Déor along the river, and ambushed him when they 
had the opportunity. Why the Orcs then waited in ambush 
is not obvious, unless they expected someone to come look -
ing for Déor.
Should the characters capture and question any of the 
Orcs, they gain little for their efforts except threats and dis -
turbing hints. These are Moria- Orcs, and know little of the 
outside world. The prisoner says that “Dwarves have come sniff-
ing around our mountain, Azog’s place, and they came with Déor. 
There’s no trespassing in Azog’s Place, that’s the rule.”
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 75 =====

NOT TO STRIKE WITHOUT NEED
71
 ♦ The Orcs say that Snava “is one of the Orc- bosses. A 
strange one. Up from the fire, I’ll wager. Snava will sort those 
trespassing Dwarves out. Snava’s got power. He’s got friends. 
And he’s gone north to sort this matter out.”
 ♦ If any of the heroes have dreamed of the Hill of Fear, 
the Orc prisoner senses this and snarls “You’ve seen it, 
ain’t you? I can smell the stink of it on you. All your fear is 
coming, and worse! Run west as far and as fast as you can if 
you want to live, because one night soon, everywhere west of 
the mountains will be ours.”
Searching the Orc- camp, the characters find a heavy sack 
(near the corpses of two Orcs who were knifed by their com-
rades in a squabble over the contents). Inside are gold and 
silver coins comprising a Lesser Hoard. Curiously, all the coins 
and treasures are of ancient Dwarven make, and the coins 
bear the likeness of Durin V — these are coins from Moria.
At the top of the sack are some possessions of Déor that 
were thrown in there by the Orcs — a comb, some pots and 
pans, and other travelling gear. Notably, there’s a leather 
pouch containing two items.
 ♦ The first is a small iron talisman, bearing the image of 
the Lidless Eye on one side and a mouth on the other. 
This is a sorcerous instrument, wound with spells 
that count as Blessings of COURTESY  and PERSUADE ; 
using it counts as a Misdeed (incurring a gain of 1 or 
2 Shadow points, depending on the circumstances). 
This talisman was forged in Mordor, and entrusted to 
Déor to aid in his mission.
 ♦ The second is an amulet made of some sort of strange 
shell. This talisman has no magical properties, but it is 
made from the carapace of the fabled Fastitocalon — 
the island- beast of the northern seas.
Part 7: Homeward Bound
The mysterious Déor is dead, and the Orcs who murdered 
him are dead too. What Déor’s task was, why he was slain, 
and what connection he has to the Hill of Fear is a mystery. 
Orothel vows to seek out these answers.
 ♦ One possible clue — the shell amulet. With the 
Fellowship- phase Undertaking Study Magical Items, the 
characters can identify it as an amulet made by the 
Snowmen of Lossoth. It signifies friendship — or alle -
giance, and a historian can warn that the Lossoth were 
forced to serve the Witch- king of Angmar out of fear 
in days of old.
 ♦ A second clue — the Dwarves who travelled into the 
hills with Déor. What did they see? Where did they go?
OROTHEL’S FATE
What becomes of Orothel the Ranger? Defeating the 
Hill of Fear is a task for the Player- heroes, not her, so she 
must step back from the tale. Some options:
 ♦ Orothel may be wounded in The Siege of Rath 
Sereg ( page 88 ) and be unable to continue on 
with The Quest of Amon Guruthos ( page 91 ).
 ♦ She might retire to the Ranger- haven east of 
Rivendell, and pass on the burden of defending 
Eriador to the Player- heroes.
 ♦ The heroes might discover her shallow grave 
while travelling in the North; she successfully 
tracked the Orc Snava, but was defeated by him. 
A cruel Lore master might even have Snava set the 
same trap as used at Déor’s body.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 76 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 77 =====

CHAPTER 5
WONDER OF THE  
NORTHERN WORLD
When all was ready they assailed and sacked one by one  
all the strongholds of the Orcs that they could find from Gundabad  
to the Gladden. Both sides were pitiless, and there was 
death and cruel deeds by dark and by light.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 78 =====

CHAPTER 5
74
he wounds of the war of the Dwarves and Orcs 
are still raw and bloody. Two hundred years ago, 
the Orcs of Moria unjustly slew Thrór, who had 
been King Under The Mountain. In response, 
the seven Houses of the Dwarves gathered together to exact 
vengeance in the name of Durin’s heir, and for six years they 
waged bloody war in the dark places under the mountains. 
From Gundabad to the eaves of Fangorn, from the Blue 
Mountains to the Iron Hills, the cry resounded: BARUK 
KHAZÂD! KHAZÂD AI- MÊNU!
But, as the power of Mordor has grown, the Orcs have 
returned to their lairs and fortresses in the Misty Mountains 
and in the ill- omened reaches of Mirkwood. And they have 
not forgotten the injuries dealt to them by the Dwarves…
Part 1: Floki’s Errand
The opening scene of this adventure involves a request for 
the Player- heroes to carry a message to a Dwarven settlement. 
The request comes from a Dwarf named Floki, who the heroes 
likely met during A Troll- hole, if Ever There Was One . If they 
failed to meet him there, or if the group didn’t participate in 
that adventure, then the Lore master should consider intro -
ducing Floki before starting this scenario as an acquaintance 
or relative of one of the heroes.
The Player- heroes might meet him while travelling on the 
Road or at the Prancing Pony; or perhaps he comes to their 
aid in a fight, for Floki is not slow to wield his axe in battle. 
In any case, Floki treats the Player- heroes as old friends, bel-
lowing that they should come and visit him in his hall in the 
Blue Mountains, where they will feast like kings. Like kings!
There’s just one task Floki would ask of them first. He 
has a brother, Flonar, who dwells in the Hills of Evendim in 
a small Dwarf- hold with a handful of followers. Floki has a 
message for Flonar, and asks the Player- heroes to deliver it. 
He asks that they do it out of friendship, but if they quibble, 
he shall pay them in gold. (They shall get the gold regardless, 
but Floki would prefer to give a kingly gift to a friend than 
pay a hired servant according to contract).
NO CLEAR PATH
There is no ‘correct’ way to traverse this story. In some sce-
narios, there’s a clear goal for the Player- heroes — they’re 
trying to find the treasure, or slay the dragon, or destroy 
the One Ring. In others, like this one, it’s up to the Player-  
heroes to react to the circumstances and find a path forward 
that they can accept. Maybe the heroes will go on a reck -
less chase to rescue the Dwarven prisoners. Maybe they’ll 
methodically build support for Floki’s quest for vengeance, 
and help raise an army out of the Blue Mountains. Maybe 
they’ll reject Floki’s plea and counsel him to mourn his 
brother in other ways, or even decide that the brother was 
a criminal who brought ruin on himself and his followers.
Only circumstances and challenges are described 
here — it is for the Player- heroes to decide what to do 
with them.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 79 =====

WONDER OF THE NORTHERN WORLD
75
Floki
Floki is a minor Dwarven noble, a distant cousin of Thorin 
Oakenshield, although his elder brother Flonar is the head 
of their branch of the family. Floki’s defining trait is his 
sheer enthusiasm; he throws himself into any problem or 
challenge with full force. He enjoys travelling more than 
other Dwarves, and so is often found on the Road between 
the Blue Mountains and distant Erebor.
Presently, although Floki dwells in the Blue Mountains, 
like many Dwarves in this age of the world, he often talks 
loudly of the fabulous wealth of Erebor and how he might 
one day go there to seek his fortune.
OCCUPATION:  Messenger
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Eager, Proud 
OTHER ROADS TO ADVENTURE
 ♦ The Player-heroes’ Patron is a friend of Floki, 
and asks them to deliver the letter to Flonar.
 ♦ If your Player- heroes happen to be adven -
turing in the hills around Lake Evendim on 
some other quest, they might come upon 
the disaster of the Vale of Gold by chance, 
and be drawn into the adventure that way. 
They find the bodies of the slaughtered 
Dwarves, and discover Floki’s letter to his 
brother among Flonar’s possessions, giving 
them the clue that leads to Part 4: Council 
Under The Mountains .
The Shadow of the Past
Suspicious or insightful heroes may wonder why Floki does 
not deliver this message himself, or may even have heard of 
the disgrace of Floki’s brother Flonar. This matter is discussed 
in Part 4: Council Under The Mountains , but in brief: it is for -
bidden to enter Moria or take relics from there, and Flonar 
spoke against this prohibition. For this disobedience, he was 
shunned by many, and so he chose to set off into the Lone- 
lands. Floki’s face flushes and his beard bristles with anger 
when he speaks of the injustice done to his brother, but the 
fact remains that Floki must be circumspect when communi-
cating with Flonar to avoid sharing in his disgrace.
The Letter
Floki gives the characters a letter for his brother, as well as a 
few silver pennies for travelling expenses. His brother’s hall, 
he says, lies north- west of Lake Evendim, far from the habi -
tations of any other living soul. There are tales that the ruins 
around the Lake are haunted, and he warns the adventurers 
to stay away from ghosts and wights.
Floki’s letter is sealed with wax. If the characters open 
it, they find that it is written in the Common Tongue and 
discusses Floki’s efforts to quietly plead Flonar’s case to the 
Dwarven leaders, and asks Flonar for more money so that 
Floki may hire advocates, scribes and lawyers. There is noth -
ing especially strange or suspicious about the letter (opening 
a sealed letter is a minor Misdeed worth 1 Shadow Point).
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 80 =====

CHAPTER 5
76
Part 2: The Vale of Gold
After a long journey, the Company discovers a fresh trail that 
leads up into the hills, west of the lake, and then along an old 
road that runs arrow- straight towards the west, cleaving through 
the hills as if carved by a great sword- stroke. Once it was wide and 
paved with great flagstones, a ceremonial road for the Sea- kings. 
Statues and monuments to vanished Númenor and heroes of 
old lined the path, but now there is naught but shattered stone 
beneath the grass. What the defilement of Orcs could not accom-
plish, the lone centuries have managed.
And along that old straight track, the Company sees 
smoke rising. Wisps of black smoke, wraith- smoke, the lin -
gering ghost of a great conflagration.
Flonar’s Hall
Following the smoke leads to the Vale of Gold where Flonar 
and his followers settled. It was named for the blazing golden 
gorse bushes that cover the slopes, but they are all ash now 
— as are most of the houses and pens built by the Dwarves.
What lies in front of the heroes is a scene of devastation and 
chaos — the buildings have been burnt down, and the corpses 
of a dozen Dwarves lie scattered and dismembered across the 
hillside. Great black crows peck and tear at their spilled guts, 
cawing and spitting as the Player- heroes draw near. Notably, all 
of the Dwarves have had their right hand hacked off, leaving 
only bloody stumps. The hands themselves are missing. There 
are a few Orc- carcasses too, left where they fell by their com-
rades, although they have been stripped of any useful gear.
A multitude of Orc footprints mar the churned- up ground, 
dozens of Orc- arrows lie embedded in the corpses — there can 
be no doubt that a large Orc- host was responsible for this attack.
The Dwarven settlement was quite small. There are a few 
little houses made of river- mud, branches and piled stones, 
and a few ancient cellars that have been partially excavated 
and repaired. The Dwarves had not dwelt here for long, and 
were in the process of building better homes for themselves. 
Flonar and his followers only settled here two years ago, after 
his exile. At a guess, there were at least three dozen Dwarves 
living here — but counting the bodies, there are only twenty 
or so Dwarven corpses, suggesting that some were taken as 
prisoners by the Orcs.
Flonar’s Body
The remains of the chieftain of the Vale of Gold are tied to 
one of the ancient statues that dot the landscape around Lake 
Evendim. It is clear that he was tortured before he died; his 
body bears many wounds and fresh brands, suggesting he was 
tormented with heated weapons. His beard has been shorn, 
his eyes torn out and thrown to the crows, and someone tried 
to cut his head from his shoulders judging by the gory ruin 
of his neck. A notched axe bears testament to the stiffness of 
Dwarven neck- bones. Even in death, though, he remains a 
mighty Dwarf, tall for his kind, and battle- strong. He bears a 
clear resemblance to his younger brother Floki. The corpses 
of a dozen Orcs lie nearby, hacked apart by Flonar’s axe.
Examining the Dwarf’s body, the characters find some -
thing curious — around his neck is a chain of silvery metal, 
held closed by a clasp of cunning make. Hanging from the 
chain is a scrap of iron, suggesting that an iron object was 
once attached to it, but was recently hacked off when the Orcs 
could not open the chain — and little wonder! The chain is 
forged of Mithril, and cannot be opened without the secret 
of the clasp or a suitable magical success. Clearly, Flonar had 
some treasured item hung on the chain, and would not yield 
it over to the Orcs no matter how they tormented him. They 
tortured him, they tried to cut the chain, they tried to saw off 
his head, and in the end they just tore away the iron object, 
suggesting they were in great haste.
(If this is the first scene of the adventure, then there’s also 
a letter in Flonar’s pocket. Scrape away the blood, and it can 
be read. It is a letter from his brother Floki.)
The Goblins
The Lore master calls for an AWARENESS  roll as the characters 
search the site. If successful, the Player- heroes hear the yelp-
ing and cruel jests of Goblins close at hand, and can sneak up 
on the foul creatures. If the heroes fail, then the Goblins are 
not taken by surprise, and have time to grab their weapons.
These Goblins are stragglers that got separated from the 
host that sacked the Vale of Gold. They lingered here to loot 
the ruins, and were caught by the rising sun. They took shelter 
in a cellar, and are whiling away the daylight hours digging 
for hidden treasure.
 ♦ There are three Goblin Archers for each Player- hero 
in the Company.
 ♦ The Goblins’ shields and helms are marked with a 
symbol — the mark of a two- headed Troll. A hero with 
ENEMY-  LORE  (Orcs) knows that this is the symbol of a 
Goblin- band that dwells in the Ettenmoors, far to the 
east of the Vale of Gold, a tribe led by an Orc named 
Hultmar Manyhanded.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 81 =====

WONDER OF THE NORTHERN WORLD
77
Reading the Riddle
So — a large band of Orcs crossed hundreds of leagues of 
the Lone- lands to attack an isolated and obscure Dwarven set-
tlement. The Orcs are only a day or two ahead of the heroes, 
but are likely marching east with great haste. It’s also likely 
that the Orcs have taken some Dwarves prisoner — but it’s 
certain that the Orcs heavily outnumber the heroes.
The heroes could pursue them — or they could return 
to Floki and the Blue Mountains, and learn more of Flonar 
and what might have been taken from him….
THE SPIES OF SAURON
The War is coming. All across the East, the thralls and 
servants of Sauron the Terrible labour in preparation for 
the final assault. Ever since Sauron returned to Barad- dûr 
and declared his presence in Mordor once again, the War 
has been inevitable. The first stroke must fall on Gondor, 
on the sevenfold walls of Minas Tirith and the crossings 
of Osgiliath, but the defenders there are but mortals, 
and few mortals have ever troubled Sauron’s thought. 
No, ever the Eye probes for those few he fears have the 
power to defy him. The Istari sent from the West, and 
the remaining Elf- lords, the bearers of the Three — these, 
Sauron believes, are the only forces left that might con -
test his dominion of Middle- earth.
A key element of Sauron’s plan, therefore, is the 
assault on the remaining Elven strongholds. He intends 
to encircle Lothlórien, striking at the Golden Wood from 
east and west at once. He has sent his Nazgûl to reclaim 
his old fortress in Dol Guldur to prepare the assault from 
the east; from the west, he intends to send the Goblin-  
rabble of the Misty Mountains, and for that he needs 
to command the strongholds of the mountains; Mount 
Gram, Mount Gundabad, Goblin-  town — and, nearest 
and greatest, Moria!
With Moria, he can command the Dimrill Stair and 
the other passes of the mountains, and cut Riven -
dell and the Grey Havens off from Wilderland. And 
should his other spies find the hidden valley, then 
from Moria he can send forth a host to despoil the 
Last Homely House.
Sauron has dispatched spies and agents to Moria, 
to sway the Orcs who dwell there. Their mission must 
be one of utmost secrecy — Sauron knows that there 
are hunters and heroes in Elrond’s household that might 
thwart his schemes if they learn of them too soon. At this 
stage in his preparations, he must be like a great spider, 
patiently spinning a web to invisibly enmesh his ene -
mies, so that they do not realise they are trapped until it 
is too late for a bright sword to cut them free. His spies 
must stay hidden.
Now, the Dwarf Flonar and one of his companions 
secretly visited Moria, in defiance of the command of 
King Dáin, who long ago warned that no Dwarf would 
walk in Moria while Durin’s Bane yet waited for them 
there. Dáin made this prophecy as a stripling warrior 
at the Battle of Dimrill Dale, but now that he is King 
Under The Mountain, it has the force of a royal com -
mand, and woe betide anyone who breaks it. Flonar 
and his companion sought to enter Moria by a secret 
path that he thought was known only to the Dwarves 
and thus avoid the watchers at the Gates. He learned 
from the thief Jari the Wanderer that the archives in 
the Blue Mountains contained the key to this secret 
door, and stole it.
Alas! This secret way was known to Thorin’s father 
Thráin, and he yielded it up in the dungeons of Dol 
Guldur after many torments. The door was the very 
one used by Sauron’s agents when they crept into 
Moria, and when Flonar and his companions used the 
hidden door, they caused great alarm among those 
spies of Mordor.
All this long tale is a prologue: fearing discovery, one 
of Sauron’s spies spied on Flonar’s company, following 
them back north to the Vale of Gold. The spy — another 
Orc, by the name of Snava, (see page 101 ) — then 
recruited Hultmar Manyhanded to destroy the Dwarves 
of the Vale of Gold, and thus ensure the secrecy of Sau -
ron’s emissaries in Moria…
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 82 =====

CHAPTER 5
78
Part 3: Chasing the Orcs
The evidence found among the ruins of the Dwarven settlement 
indicates that there was clearly a great host of Orcs at the Vale of 
Gold, and that the Company would end up like the Warg that 
caught the Oliphaunt if they succeed in overtaking their quarry. 
They can still pursue if they wish, and maybe rescue any prison-
ers taken by the Orcs through stealth rather than force of arms 
— but it is their decision whether or not to pursue immediately.
If the Player- heroes are bound on this course, then they 
can follow the Orc- trail.
The Orc- host
The warband that sacked the Vale of Gold is led by a dread -
ful Orc- captain of the north by the name of Hultmar, known 
among his kind as the Manyhanded, for it is his custom to take 
the sword- hand of anyone who defies him, Man or Orc. Worse, 
it’s whispered that he possesses some vile sorcery learned in 
the secret clefts of Angmar or Dol Guldur, and that he can 
breathe life and motion into his collection of rotten hands, so 
that they crawl like spiders around his lair and strangle the life 
from his foes. When he was inspired to attack the Vale of Gold, 
he gathered his best Orcs and set off from his stronghold in 
the Ettenmoors, the place called Rath Sereg, the Fort of Blood.
His host consists of some fifty fighting Orcs, and they are 
accompanied by lesser Goblins who came chiefly for plunder, 
not fighting. The Orcs travel only by night, though the gloomy 
clouds of northern Eriador admit little sunlight, and so they 
can march long at dusk. By day, they hide in whatever hole or 
sheltered glen they can find — Hultmar is well- travelled, and 
knows the best places to hide from the sun. (Unlike Trolls, 
the touch of the sun does not harm Orcs, though they do 
find it unpleasant; if the Orcs are caught in the open, they 
can just hurl themselves to the ground and bury their faces 
in the mud until the searing light passes.)
THE PRISONERS
In addition to what little gold and iron they took from the 
Vale of Gold, the Orcs also took nine Dwarves as prisoners. 
These unfortunates have had their hands bound and ropes 
tied to their beards or necks, to drag them along when the 
Orcs run. Dwarves are not as swift as Orcs, and Hultmar has 
given orders that any Dwarf who cannot keep up is to be killed.
Hunting the Orcs
At first, the trail followed by the Orc- band is obvious — the 
wet earth around Lake Evendim holds tracks well — but as the 
Orcs march north- east, it becomes harder to track them. The 
heroes must complete a HUNTING  Skill Endeavour to follow 
the Orcs’ trail in addition to the travails of a regular Journey.
 ♦ The endeavour is a Laborious one (Resistance 6) and 
the time limit is 6. Each Player- hero is allowed to 
attempt two rolls each day.
 ♦ If the endeavour fails, the iron sinews of the Orcs 
coupled with worsening weather proves too much for 
the Company, and they lose the trail. Still, they can 
find Rath Sereg by searching the Ettenmoors. Such a 
search takes several weeks of wandering in the wastes 
though, and they lose all chances of rescuing the cap-
tives before the Orcs reach their stronghold.
The Lore master can enliven the chase interspersing the nar-
ration with the following events:
 ♦ THE DEAD DWARF: The heroes come across the 
corpse of one of the prisoners from the Vale of Gold, 
dumped in a shallow pit. This unlucky Dwarf, Glodi, 
has had his throat slit and his right hand hacked off. 
While a grisly sight, at least it’s proof that the heroes 
are on the right track.
 ♦ THE SHADOW OUT OF ANGMAR: Clouds — heavy, black, 
and full of icy sleet — blow down from the north- 
east. This bad weather impedes the heroes’ chase, and 
reduces the amount of daylight (Player- heroes are now 
allowed to make a maximum of one roll each day).
 ♦ THE DROPPED TOKEN: As the heroes hurry across 
the grey world beyond the North Downs, they spot a 
flash of gold amid the murk — it is a sprig of gorse 
from the Vale of Gold, far from home. Someone — 
one of the Dwarven prisoners — took this flower and 
dropped it as a sign.
 ♦ THE CRAWLING HAND: One of the heroes spots a pale 
shape scuttling across the rocks nearby. Searching, 
they discover a disembodied hand — it is the hand 
of one of the Dwarves from the Vale of Gold, hacked 
off by Hultmar. The hand is now unmoving, and it 
is possible that the grisly trophy was just dropped by 
the Orcs as they ran — but the hero who saw it would 
swear it was crawling.
THE REAR- GUARD
Hultmar fought at the Battle of Five Armies and survived the 
bloody retreat from Erebor, so he knows well the value of a 
rear- guard. He has a number of his sturdiest Orcs march well 
behind the body of the host, so that they might warn him of 
any pursuers.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 83 =====

WONDER OF THE NORTHERN WORLD
79
At a suitable juncture during the chase (for example, 
should the Player- heroes all fail one round of rolls), 
the heroes encounter this rear- guard. There is one Orc 
Guard for each Player- hero in the Company.
Catching Up With Hultmar
If the heroes manage to catch up with the Orcs, then they may 
attempt to rescue the captives. (Especially brave heroes might 
even sneak into the Orc- camp to question Hultmar Many -
handed). If the Orcs have a sheltered place to camp and wait 
out the sunlight, then they set guards to watch over the captives 
during the day. Otherwise, the Orcs bind their captives’ feet 
and shackle them to an iron spike driven into the ground. The 
Orcs also have lookouts stationed around their camp.
Hultmar Manyhanded takes his own precautions — he 
puts his collection of hands in a circle around him before 
spreading out on the ground to sleep. The Orcs whisper that 
the hands change position in the night, scuttling around Hul-
tmar and warding off danger.
Player- heroes sneaking into a secure camp or cave 
must pass a STEALTH  roll, losing (1d) . Sneaking in 
when the Orcs are caught in the open is easier, and 
the STEALTH  roll suffers no penalties. In either case, 
if the roll fails, the alarm is raised and the Orcs rise 
up to slay the intruders.
The captive Dwarves are too weak to fight, and cannot run 
quickly — the heroes must either find a hiding place or lure 
any Orc hunters away once they escape, or Hultmar’s Orcs 
may simply recapture the escaped prisoners once night falls. 
The Orcs will not spend more than a single night searching 
for escaped Dwarves.
If the heroes get into a fight with the Orcs, assume there are 
two Orc Soldiers for each Player- hero at the start of the battle.
At the end of each round of combat, roll a Feat die 
and divide the result by 2, rounding down, to deter -
mine how many more Orcs join the fray. On an , 
Hultmar Manyhanded joins the fray. On a , some 
distraction gives the heroes a chance to flee.
Rescuing the Dwarves
The nine Dwarves captured by Hultmar are:
 ♦ ALVIR, a doughty and resilient young Dwarf
 ♦ VIGNI, a dour and depressed smith
 ♦ BUR, a young Dwarf- woman, apprentice to Vigni
 ♦ THROR, a distant cousin of Thorin Oakenshield, and 
proud of his royal connections
 ♦ AIL, a wise old Dwarf sage
 ♦ BOFIN, clumsy but lucky
 ♦ HILVI, a talented weaponsmith
 ♦ GLOMAR, a secretive and taciturn hunter
 ♦ DVARI, merry with his axe
If Hultmar murders any of his captives, choose the victim 
at random.
THE PRISONER’S TALE
If the Player- heroes rescue one of the Dwarves, either now 
or later in the scenario, then the Dwarf tells them this tale. 
Alternatively, if events go awry, the heroes may hear the tale as 
a last confession from the blood- flecked lips of a dying Dwarf. 
If multiple Dwarves are rescued (or are mortally wounded), 
then Alvir, Ail, Hilvi or Glomar are the best candidates.
The Dwarf says that he accompanied Flonar south to the dis-
tant city of Tharbad, and from there up into the mountains. For 
a time, they travelled with a Man from the south, but they parted 
ways before they reached the Redhorn Pass. Flonar and the Dwarf 
climbed the pass — but they were not bound for Wilderland. No, 
Flonar had a great secret — a hidden way into Khazad- Dûm! A 
way that led to an ancient watchpost overlooking the pass!
How Flonar discovered this route, the Dwarf does not know, 
but the Dwarf leader was hopeful that the Orcs did not know 
of that entrance into the mountain fortress. Flonar even dared 
dream that the Dwarves could one day use this route to retake the 
city in a surprise assault, just as Thorin Oakenshield’s companions 
planned to use the hidden door into Erebor to strike at Smaug.
Alas! They entered Moria, and found that Orcs had tres -
passed even into the hidden watchpost. The Orcs must have 
found their way there only recently, for those particular halls 
were still mostly unspoiled and unlooted.
A Grisly Homecoming
25 days after the sack of the Vale of Gold, the Orcs return to 
their lair in the Fort of Blood. This fortress lies in the west -
ern Ettenmoors. Long ago, it was an outpost of Angmar, built 
by Evil Men; now, the ruins are overgrown and inhabited by 
Orcs. The ghastly name of the place originally referred to 
the reddish brambles that grow in great profusion there, but 
now the title is earned by Hultmar’s practise of smearing the 
entrails of his victims across the stones, to attract carrion birds.
While the walls of the fort have fallen, there are cellars 
and caves beneath it that are infested with Orcs. Rath Sereg 
is described fully in Part 5: Rath Sereg.
If the Orcs bring home prisoners, they are dragged into 
the caverns below and imprisoned. The iron gates of Rath 
Sereg clang shut, like the tolling of some dreadful bell. There 
can be no hope for them unless hope comes from outside.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 84 =====

CHAPTER 5
80
Part 4: Council 
Under the Mountains
The Lore master should present this scene if the heroes return 
to Floki or bring word of the sack of the Vale of Gold to the 
Dwarf- lords of the Ered Luin.
Floki’s Grief
If the heroes have not already met Floki, then they may seek 
him out after having discovered the corpse of his brother. 
Wherever the heroes seek Floki — in Bree, in Ered Luin, or 
on the Road — they find him, as if fate is eager to add to 
his sorrows.
Floki is appalled to learn of his brother’s death at the Vale 
of Gold. He tears at his beard, weeps, gnashes his teeth — and 
then rashly swears an oath. If the heroes are his friends, he 
invites them to join him. “I swear by Aulë the Maker and Durin 
Deathless, by all the Powers of the West and those below in the dark, 
that I shall have vengeance. Death to he who slew my brother, and 
death to anyone who stands between me and my revenge!” Such an 
oath is a perilous and ill- chosen one, but Floki will not be 
dissuaded. He urges the heroes to accompany him to the 
halls of the Dwarves in the Blue Mountains to gather a force 
to hunt down the Orcs.
If the heroes ask about the necklace carried by Flonar, 
Floki does not recognise it. He guesses that it was a treasure 
that his brother recovered from Moria (in truth, Flonar stole 
it from the archives in the Blue Mountains).
The Halls of the Dwarves
Eventually, rumours and tidings of the assault on the Vale of 
Gold reach the Dwarves dwelling in the Blue Mountains, and 
a council is convened. Once ruled by Thorin Oakenshield, the 
communities of the Ered Luin enjoyed a time of plenty and 
prosperity, drawing wayward Dwarves from as far south as Dun-
land. When the Dragon was slain, many Dwarves chose to return 
to Erebor, leaving only the oldest and most illustrious Dwarf- 
lords to preserve the traditions of the lost mountain- cities of 
the First Age, Nogrod and Belegost. Today, the Blue Mountains 
are ruled by many chieftains and no kings, a land where proud 
Dwarves labour and nurse the memory of lost glories.
The council is called in the Halls of the Dwarves, the 
main Dwarf- hold dug on the east side of the Blue Moun -
tains, to the north of the Gulf of Lune. The underground 
city extends deep into the mountains, but its halls have seen 
better days. Clearly built to house a much larger community 
than the one inhabiting it, the Dwarf- hold is ancient and 
vast, and its draughty chambers and rune- scored passages 
are poorly lit.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 85 =====

WONDER OF THE NORTHERN WORLD
81
ORDER OF EVENTS
This scene uses the Council rules, but changes the order 
of events slightly — swap Step 1 (Set Resistance) and 
Step 2 (Introduction). So, the Player- heroes arrive, intro -
duce themselves, there’s some intrigue, and then they 
decide what they’re actually asking for from the Dwarves.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 86 =====

CHAPTER 5
82
The Council Begins
In the hall chosen for the council seven large braziers burn 
with tall flames, their light and heat struggling to chase away 
the shadows and dampness from the tall- ceilinged room. The 
gathering is overseen by a Dwarven elder with clouded eyes 
named Vilia, a veteran of the Battle of Azanulbizar. She was 
struck by a poisoned Orc- arrow in that battle, and the venom 
ate away her nerves. She walks with difficulty, so she is car -
ried in on a palanquin by four stout Dwarves. Other Dwarves 
file into the council chamber in the mountain’s heart, and 
when the chamber’s seats are full, Vilia thumps a staff onto 
the ground.
“We are gathered,” she says, “at the request of Floki, second son 
of Flokar. Dark tidings have come to us of the Vale of Gold. These 
travellers came from the hill, and brought news.”
Vilia asks the Player- heroes to introduce themselves, 
and to tell the tale of the Vale of Gold (this is the 
Introduction step of the council; note the result of 
the Company’s rolls, and any  rolled, to set the time 
limit for the council).
The Dwarves grumble and shout when the heroes describe the 
fate of the Dwarves at the Vale of Gold, and become especially 
angered if the heroes mention how Flonar’s corpse was defiled 
or that prisoners were taken. Vilia raises her hand for silence.
“There is more to this tale,” she says, “and that must be told too, 
before Floki’s plea may be justly heard. Many of you know this story, 
but others may not, and it shall be spoken here again, that the stone 
may remember.”
Vilia explains that Flonar was one of several who defied 
both custom and the word of King Dáin by seeking to enter 
the lost city of Moria. She does not know if it was foolish talk, 
or if Flonar ever put his plans into action, but it is forbid -
den either way. “I was there at Azanulbizar,” says Vilia, “when 
Frerin, son of Thráin, fell in battle. I fought alongside Thorin in the 
oakwood, and I saw Azog slay Náin of the Iron Hills. I saw young 
Dáin Ironfoot avenge his father — not slow was his axe that day! 
I watched him spring up the steps of Durin’s Gate, and halt there 
on the very threshold of the First Hall. He said then that a for  esight 
was on him, and that the Dwarves shall not return to Moria until a 
greater power walks those halls.” She shakes her head, painfully. 
“Who can gainsay a foresight bought at such cost? Only a fool. It was 
for this folly that Flonar was shunned, and he left these mountains 
to dwell in the Vale of Gold. Treasure consumed his thoughts, and 
treasure brought ruin to him.”
Floki splutters with anger and starts to speak, but Vilia 
again silences him. “I mislike rashly spoken words — they lead to 
sorrow. We shall convene again in one hour, so that we may choose 
wisely with clear heads.”
INTRIGUE IN THE HALLS
Both Floki and Vilia approach the Player- heroes. Depend -
ing on the playing group’s preferred playstyle, they might 
speak to the whole group at once, or target individual 
characters — Floki might prefer to speak to more impul -
sive, warlike characters while Vilia targets those who seem 
slower to act.
THE FURY OF FLOKI: Floki is so furious he can hardly talk — 
he is convinced that the council intends to ignore the death 
of his brother! They are going to say that Flonar brought 
disaster on himself by leaving the safety of the Blue Moun -
tains and going to live in virtual exile at the Vale of Gold. 
Cowards! When King Thrór was killed at the gates of Moria, 
all the Dwarves answered the call to war! They slaughtered 
all the Orcs in the Misty Mountains!
And now — now that the Dwarves are stronger, and the 
Orcs weaker after the Battle of Five Armies — now they have 
grown so fat and lazy on Dragon- gold that they will not lift a 
finger to avenge poor Flonar!
Floki begs the characters to help him convince the 
Dwarves to go to war against the Orcs who killed Flonar. If 
he has not already sworn an oath in front of the heroes, he 
does so now. If he has already sworn the oath, he reminds 
the heroes of it — and if they swore too, he calls on them to 
remember their words.
THE COUNSEL OF VILIA: Vilia has her aides escort her into a 
private room, then dismisses them so she can speak to the 
Player- heroes privately. She thanks them for bringing word 
of the attack on the Vale of Gold. If they tracked the Orcs 
to Rath Sereg or rescued any of the prisoners, she rewards 
them with gold (5 points of Treasure for the location of Rath 
Sereg, 10 points for each saved prisoner).
Then, she continues: Floki, she says, is overcome with grief 
and anger. He calls for vengeance — but he is no king. Few 
Dwarves will rally to his cause, and there are too many Orcs 
for him to defeat alone. If the heroes are truly Floki’s friends, 
they will put an end to his folly, and make him see sense. It 
may be bitter to speak against a friend, and Floki will not be 
quick to forgive them, but it is for the best.
THE STOLEN KEY
If the Player- heroes mention the clasp bourne by 
Flonar, or talk of a key that opens a secret entrance 
to Moria, then Vilia hastily silences them. “That 
matter should only be spoken of privately.”
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 87 =====

WONDER OF THE NORTHERN WORLD
83
Flonar was a fool; do not let Floki follow him down the 
same ruinous path. As for the Orcs who sacked the Vale of 
Gold, there is little that can be done about them. They are 
far away, across the breadth of the Lone- lands, and secure in 
their mountain fortresses.
She asks if the characters know any reason why the Orcs 
marched so far to attack the Vale of Gold. If the characters 
mention the Mithril- chain, then she bows her head, and says 
that a key to a secret way into Moria was brought out of the 
wreck of that city by King Thráin I. A copy of that key was held 
in the archives in the Blue Mountains. She suspects Flonar 
stole it. She asks the characters to keep this quiet — if the 
other Dwarves knew that there was a secret way into Moria, it 
might inspire others to the same folly as Flonar.
If the heroes do as Vilia suggests and ensure that Flo -
ki’s plea is ignored by the council, she promises she will aid 
them in future.
Vilia
Some are gifted with wisdom; for others, it is hard- won. In 
her youth, Vilia was an impetuous Dwarf- woman, unwilling 
to be sheltered and kept hidden as is the custom for many 
of her sisters. She took up the axe, and when the call went 
out to the Seven Houses of the Dwarves to avenge the death 
of Thror, she answered it eagerly. She was the first through 
the gate of Mount Gram, and not little was the count of the 
heads she clove that day. So great was her renown that 
word of her prowess reached even the ears of Azog, and 
he ordered his Goblin- archers to target her in particular. A 
poisoned dart felled Vilia by the shore of the Mirrormere.
She should have perished, but she fought on, and 
clung to life. When she awoke, her limbs were as stone. 
She set herself to a new path; if her limbs no longer obeyed 
her, then eye and tongue would have to do instead. She 
became a historian and counsellor.
One bold young stripling of a Dwarf once asked if 
she regretted joining the fray, and Vilia answered thusly: 
“I wish I had not been injured, but I cannot change my deci -
sion. And who knows — perhaps if I had not been there that 
day, the battle would have gone worse for the Dwarves, 
and more would have perished. No, what I regret is that 
I joined the fray without consideration. I was young and 
hot- blooded, but taking up the axe is a decision that 
should be made reluctantly, and with due consideration. 
The axe- blade comes hot and blazing from the forge, but 
it must be tempered and cooled before it is of any use.”
OCCUPATION:  Dwarven sage
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Honourable, Patient
THE CHOICE
When the council resumes, Floki stands and declares that this 
insult to the Dwarves cannot go unanswered. His brother is 
dead, and two dozen other Dwarves are dead or in shackles! 
The Orcs must answer for this! He calls upon the Dwarves of the 
Blue Mountains to muster an army and march to war against 
the Orcs who did this. Vilia turns to the Player- heroes (especially 
any Dwarves in the Company) and asks what they would counsel.
 ♦ A reasonable request (Resistance 3) would be to follow 
Vilia’s advice, and suggest that the Dwarves do noth-
ing rash. They might suggest investigating the Orcs, or 
sending a small fellowship of heroes to rescue any pris-
oners. Suggesting this cautious course of action likely 
enrages Floki.
 ♦ A bold request (Resistance 6) would be to ignore both 
Vilia and Floki, and suggest a middle ground — mus -
tering a small raiding party of Dwarves to extract ven -
geance upon the Orcs. This would be a highly danger-
ous quest, as the Dwarves would be heavily outnum-
bered and far from any allies. However, it would satisfy 
Floki’s demand for vengeance while also ensuring that 
the Dwarves do not go to war.
 ♦ An outrageous request (Resistance 9) would be to sup-
port Floki’s call for all- out war against the Orcs.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 88 =====

CHAPTER 5
84
THE DEBATE
The time limit of the council is set using the result of the 
characters’ Introduction rolls. All skill rolls can be modified 
by the attitude of the assembled Dwarven dignitaries.
 ♦ If there are no Dwarves in the Company, then the atti-
tude of the council is Reluctant —  lose (1d).
 ♦ If there is at least one Dwarf in the Company, or the 
heroes know the location of Rath Sereg, then the atti-
tude of the council is Open (no modifier).
 ♦ If there’s a Dwarf and the characters have already found 
Rath Sereg, then the council is Friendly — gain (1d) .
In the Interaction phase, the heroes may speak in support 
of whatever course of action they suggested. Useful Skills 
include:
 ♦ INSIGHT , to see that many of the Dwarves in the coun -
cil disliked Flonar and would be loath to go to war to 
avenge him — or to spot which Dwarves are unde -
cided and might be swayed to support Floki.
 ♦ BATTLE , to suggest strategies, to tell of the Orcs’ 
stronghold, or to warn of the dangers of crossing all of 
the Lone- lands on a fruitless quest for revenge.
 ♦ ENHEARTEN, PERSUADE OR COURTESY  to speak elo-
quently in support of a course of action.
 ♦ RIDDLE , to stall or speak empty words.
 ♦ TRAVEL , to speak of the dangers of the Wild.
If the characters speak of the stolen key, it gives an auto -
matic success.
RESULT: If the council ends in Disaster, then Floki explodes 
in anger. He blames both the Dwarves for being cowards, and 
the heroes for betraying him. “Why?! By Durin’s beard, it’s all 
so clear now! There were no Orcs! It was you who attacked the Vale 
of Gold and murdered Flonar, and then brought this nonsensical tale 
of Orcs to cover up their misdeeds!” Floki snatches up his axe and 
attacks the heroes; he is quickly restrained by the Dwarves and 
exiled from the Blue Mountains like his brother.
If the council elects to follow Vilia’s advice, then the 
Dwarves choose to do nothing. Depending on how events 
played out, Floki may be bitterly resentful of the heroes, or 
just blame Vilia for the decision. Either way, Floki declares 
his intent to set out in search of vengeance. The heroes may 
accompany him if they wish.
If the council agrees to follow Floki’s call, then the 
Dwarves lend support to the cause against Hultmar and the 
Orcs of Rath Sereg. The degree of support depends on the 
nature of the request.
 ♦ A reasonable request (Resistance 3) could be asking 
the Dwarves to pay the Player- heroes if they find Rath 
Sereg and rescue any Dwarven prisoners, and if they 
manage to slay Hultmar. The heroes will be paid 5 
Treasure each for this quest, plus 10 Treasure for each 
prisoner rescued, plus another 5 each for Hultmar’s 
head (halve these values on a Success with Woe).
 ♦ A bold request (Resistance 6) could be as above, plus 
the characters may each take two items (either wargear 
or useful items) from the armouries of the Dwarves, or 
a single item on a Success with Woe.
 ♦ An outrageous request (Resistance 9) could be asking 
the Dwarves to march to war! On a Success, hundreds 
of Dwarven warriors muster at the Blue Mountains 
before marching on Rath Sereg. The Player- heroes may 
accompany this host to battle, and if they do they will 
get all the rewards above. Optionally, a character (espe-
cially a Dwarf) might be awarded a  Magical Weapon.
Part 5: Rath Sereg
From there the power was spreading far and wide, and away far east and south  
there were wars and growing fear. Orcs were multiplying again in the mountains.
RUMOUR
The numbers of the Orcs in the Misty Mountains are growing again, 
mark my words! They’re creeping down from the north once again, 
and soon they’ll block all the passes into Wilderland. They’re com-
ing west, too, down the Hoarwell and through the hills, making 
lairs in all the old ruins and barrows. I wouldn’t sleep soundly, if 
I were you. You never know when there’ll be an Orc at your door.
OLD LORE
Of old there was the realm of Angmar, where Evil Men dwelt. They 
raised watchtowers and fortresses on their borders, and from these 
forts they sent raiders to trouble the lands of the King. For many 
years, they had great success, and the strength of the north was bro-
ken. Yet, before Angmar could lay claim to all of Eriador, a fleet of 
ships stronger than any that had been seen in an Age of the world 
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 89 =====

WONDER OF THE NORTHERN WORLD
85
sailed from the south, and from that fleet came a great host, and 
Angmar was destroyed. The city of Carn Dûm and all the border 
forts were razed or fell into disrepair.
Background
Rath Sereg was once a mighty fortress, guarding the southern 
approaches to the capital of the Witch- king at Carn Dûm. At 
its height, thousands of soldiers — Men and Orcs — dwelt 
here, and stranger creatures bred by the Witch- king’s sorcery 
lurked in the dungeons below. The fortress was virtually emp-
tied of troops before the Battle of Fornost in T.A. 1975, and 
only a handful of sentries remained behind. They watched the 
horizon, expecting to see the banners of Angmar returning 
in triumph, their allies laden down with booty from the sack 
of Arthedain. Instead, to their dismay, they saw the banners 
of the Lords of Gondor and the symbol of the White Tree.
Had the defenders stayed at their posts, then Rath Sereg 
might have held out for weeks, for back then its walls were 
sturdy and tall, it was well- provisioned, and even a small 
few guards could have defended its gates against the might 
of Gondor. Had they stayed, then Rath Sereg might have 
checked the advance of the enemy, and given the scattered 
armies of Angmar time to reform. But the courage of Evil 
Men was lacking at the pinch, and they fled.
Prince Eärnur of Gondor ordered that the fortress be put 
beyond use. There was no time for even the skilled sappers 
of Gondor to level Rath Sereg, but they collapsed much of 
the underground cellars and dungeons, breached the walls 
in a dozen places, and set such a blaze in the main keep that 
the very stone melted.
Rath Sereg laid in ruins for many centuries. At times, Orcs 
or Men dwelt here again, for even the wreck of a mighty for-
tress is a strong place, but it was not until the Orc- lord Hult-
mar came here after the Battle of Five Armies that any work 
was done to rebuild the fortress. The Orcs could not rebuild 
the central keep, but they have mended up the gaps in the 
walls with loose stones, and excavated enough of the tunnels 
to house an army of Orcs. Hultmar dreams of rebuilding 
Rath Sereg into a mighty fortress and establishing himself as 
warlord of Angmar.
HULTMAR’S GUEST
Also present at Rath Sereg is the key villain of the whole cam-
paign — the Mordor Orc Snava. He travelled to Rath Sereg 
after his secret lair in Moria was disturbed by Flonar, and 
convinced Hultmar to mount the raid on the Vale of Gold. 
Now that the meddling Dwarves have been dealt with, Snava 
intends to continue on north to the Hill of Fear. However, 
he has yet to depart.
Locations
1. OUTER WALL
The walls of the fort are overgrown with red weeds and 
gorse bushes, and the long slow movement of the earth 
has half- buried them in places, but this is still a strong and 
easily- defended place. The chief gaps in the defences are 
the breaches made long ago by the armies of Gondor; these 
have been filled with stones, but it’s possible for a company 
of fighters to climb these piles of loose stone and gain the 
top of the walls that way.
2. GATEHOUSE
The Orcs have rebuilt the old gatehouse, although they 
lack the skill to repair the gates. Instead of the gates of 
wood and steel that once hung here, these are gates of black 
iron forged in Gundabad. The keeper of the gatehouse is 
a Great Orc named Bataur, who uses his great ring of keys 
as a knuckleduster (Bataur is a Great Orc Bodyguard, see 
page 149 of The One Ring ). He has keys to both the gate -
house and the prison.
3. RUINS
Most of the buildings of the inner courtyard are just piles of 
weed- choked rubble. Goblins lurk amid the debris, armed 
with wicked darts and bows.
4. TOWER
This tower, built atop the remains of the burnt- out keep, is a 
pallid imitation of the matchless Barad- Dûr, at least in Hult-
mar’s delusional mind. To most, it appears as a rough- made 
watchtower of black stone and steel, erected above a grisly 
hall where Hultmar holds court — but he has grand plans 
for expansion. Dwarven prisoners from the Vale of Gold are 
put to work by day building the tower.
5. FORGE
A crude forge for the making of weapons and armour. Other 
Dwarves are forced to work here.
6. ORC- WARREN
Tunnels and caves used by the Orcs. Some are the old 
cellars of the fortress, cleared of debris; others are the 
worm- like tunnellings of Goblins. There are hundreds of 
Goblins in these warrens, far too many for any hero to 
defeat in battle.
7. PRISON
Dwarven prisoners are kept chained up in this cave when not 
working in the forge or on Hultmar’s tower.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 90 =====

CHAPTER 5
86
8. CAVE OF CRAWLING HANDS
Hultmar’s sleeping quarters are guarded by this ghastly cham-
ber, where dozens of severed hands sit on shelves like watch-
ful spiders.
NO, SERIOUSLY,  
DO THE HANDS MOVE OR NOT?
Ambiguity is often spookier than certainty. A giant 
spider lurking in the dark tunnels of Cirith Ungol is 
scary, but so too are three- headed vulture statues 
that never act, never move, but just stare. If you 
describe Hultmar’s severed hands as moving, then 
that’s almost to be expected in a fantasy game full 
of ghosts and Goblins. If the hands are just there, 
or drop to the ground from above in unexpected 
places, and the Player- heroes cannot tell if they are 
actually alive and moving or if it is just a series of 
coincidences and cruel Orc- jests, it’s much more 
disconcerting.
HULTMAR MANYHANDED
Bold, Cunning
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
7
ENDURANCE
56
MIGHT
2
HATE
7
PARRY
+3
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Heavy Scimitar 3 (5/18, Break 
Shield), Broad- headed Spear 3 (5/16, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Hatred (Dwarves) . All attacks against 
Dwarves are Favoured.
Horrible Strength . If the creature scores a Piercing 
Blow with a close combat attack, spend 1 Hate to make 
the target’s Protection roll Ill- favoured.
Snake- like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Yell of Triumph . Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
Horrible Hands . Spend 1 Hate to make all Player-  
heroes in sight gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). Those 
who fail the Shadow test are daunted and cannot spend 
Hope for the rest of the fight.
1
2
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 91 =====

WONDER OF THE NORTHERN WORLD
87
9. HULTMAR’S LAIR
The Orc warlord’s chamber is filled with maps of Eriador — 
mostly stolen from Dwarven travellers, although there are 
some old parchments obtained from the thieves of Tharbad 
too — and schemes for conquest. In a heavy iron- bound chest, 
he keeps most of the treasures taken from the Vale of Gold 
and other raids, together with a great amount of Moria- gold 
given to him by Snava as payment for the attack on the Vale 
of Gold. All in all, this is a Greater Hoard of Treasure.
RATH SEREG
3
5
4
6
7
9
10
8
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 92 =====

CHAPTER 5
88
10. SNAVA’S CHAMBER
The Orc spy dwells in this chamber. However, the Player-  
heroes will not be able to capture Snava in this adventure — 
if they get close, have Snava vanish through a secret tunnel, 
forewarned by the dreadful magic of the Hill of Fear.
Even abandoned, the Orc spy’s rooms contain some clues 
to his recent activity; there’s a heavy fur- lined coat, a shell 
amulet similar to the one found on Déor’s corpse, and two 
large and ornate knives. One was made in Minas Morgul, and 
has the sheen of new- forged steel. The other was made in 
Angmar more than a thousand years ago; it is weathered and 
rusted — but the two knives are otherwise identical, marked 
with the same dreadful symbols. One was wielded by the dark 
priests of Angmar; the other by the acolytes of Sauron in the 
Morgul Vale. Snava used these knives in blasphemous rites 
to awaken the power of the Hill.
Schemes and Trouble
RESCUING THE PRISONERS
Hultmar took nine Dwarves from the Vale of Gold, and now 
forces them to work at the forge or to build his tower. By 
night, the Dwarves labour under the watchful eye of Orcs; 
by day, they are chained up in the prison cell.
 ♦ Opening the iron door of the prison cell requires an 
ATHLETICS  or CRAFT  roll, or stealing the gaoler’s key.
 ♦ The nine prisoners are all too weak and malnour-
ished to move quickly or to fight, although a success-
ful ENHEARTEN  roll could stir them to one last 
heroic effort.
If the Dwarves lay siege to Rath Sereg, then Hultmar threat -
ens to execute his hostages one by one unless the Dwarves 
withdraw. This is a ruse; if Hultmar does convince the Dwarves 
to withdraw, then he sends messengers to Mount Gundabad 
to muster a larger Orc- host.
SNAVA’S SORCERY
If the Orcs suspect that there are enemies lurking nearby 
or trying to rescue the prisoners, then Snava can call on the 
same fell spirits the heroes encountered on the distant Isle 
of the Mother (see Unhoused Wraiths, on page 38). It takes 
time even for houseless spirits to travel all the way from the 
Hill of Fear to Rath Sereg, as the horrors cannot endure the 
light of the sun.
Snava might call the spirits one night (by lighting a bon-
fire and sacrificing one of the prisoners in a dark rite), and 
the ghosts appear the following night, howling around Rath 
Sereg and revealing the hiding places of the intruders.
SNAVA FLEES
If Rath Sereg is overrun or the heroes sneak into the fortress 
and attempt to attack him, Snava flees through a secret tun -
nel leading from his chamber (Location 10). Snava always 
escapes (have him call upon evil spirits to cover his escape if 
necessary), but an especially tenacious character could wound 
Snava as the Orc flees, and the Orc will still bear this injury 
when encountered again.
Tracking Snava across the north leads to The Quest of Amon 
Guruthos (see page 91).
THE SIEGE OF RATH SEREG
A handful of heroes cannot lay siege to the fortress, not even 
if they are aided by a band of stalwart Dwarves. The heroes 
must find a way to sneak past the sentries and climb the walls, 
or force the great iron doors.
SNAVA’S BLADES
These wicked blades are forged in the shape 
of knives, long enough to be considered Short 
Swords. The one made in Minas Morgul has the 
Superior Fell, Grievous, and Keen Rewards (con -
sider the effects as if it was of Elven craftsmanship), 
while the one made in Angmar is only Fell and 
Grievous, and possesses no Enchanted Rewards. 
However, if an attack with either of these weap -
ons results in a Wound, the target is also poisoned 
unless it is Undead (see page 134 of The One Ring ), 
and if it dies while poisoned in this way, it will rise 
as a Fell Wraith the next night. Killing a creature 
in this way counts as a Misdeed worth 4 Shadow 
points, regardless of the circumstances.
The blades are both cursed with the Curse 
of Weakness (Curse of Vengeance), and the one 
made in Minas Morgul also has the Shadow Taint 
(see pages 168–169 of The One Ring ).
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 93 =====

Wonder of the northern World
89
However, if the Dwarves come in force with the heroes, 
then there is a great battle between the Orcs and Dwarves. 
Orc watchers see the approaching Dwarves from a distance, 
and at first it seems like the courage of the Orcs wavers, and 
that they might break and flee even before battle is joined. 
Then Hultmar rushes up to the top of his tower, and blows 
his horn. “To the walls, dogs! Stand and fight! Let them break upon 
us!” The Orcs scramble for the safety of the fort, scurrying up 
the half- built walls and slamming the great iron gates behind 
them. Goblin archers huddle atop the walls, bows at the ready. 
Mighty Orcs roar behind the gates. (If the Dwarves have the 
wit to attack when the sun is high in the sky, the Orcs must 
cower in the shadows of the fort, and cannot guard the walls 
as much as they should.)
Now, Rath Sereg is well- fortified, but not enough of it has 
been repaired to withstand Dwarven siegecraft. When battle 
is joined, the Dwarves quickly identify the weaker sections of 
the walls, and hew at their foundations. Other Dwarves armed 
with large shields guard the sappers. The Orcs make several 
sallies, trying to stop the sappers; the Player- heroes may be 
instrumental in countering these assaults.
Run the battle as a Daunting Skill Endeavour (Resistance 
9). Set the time limit depending on how much of the day 
remains before dusk. The Player-heroes might use BAttle  
to assess the foe, AthletICS  to scale the walls, AWAreneSS  
to spot foes, SonG  or enheArten  to rally the Dwarves when 
the spirits attack. Combat skills can also be used.
Near dusk, the Dwarves have dug enough to undermine 
one of the filled breaches in the wall, and with a great cry 
of triumph they knock away the supports. There comes an 
avalanche of stone as the wall gives way, and then amid the 
dust and debris, the Dwarves advance, a wedge of steel push-
ing into the heart of Rath Sereg. Iron-shod boots trample 
the red flowers, and it seems as though the Orcs are on the 
verge of defeat. Cowardly Goblins flee to take refuge in the 
Orc-warren, or scramble over the walls at the rear of the fort, 
away from the Dwarven advance.
If the Player-heroes are in the thick of the fighting, they 
may encounter Hultmar Manyhanded and his retinue as they 
make their last stand in the ruins of the keep.
It seems as though all is lost for the Orcs. Then the wind 
shifts, blowing from the north with an icy breath, and, once 
again, the heroes hear that same howling of evil spirits loosed 
from the Hill of Fear. Unnatural darkness swallows the fort, 
and the Dwarves are dismayed by the terror of the spectres. 
At the same time, more Orcs join the fray. They march under 
the banner of Mount Gram. These fresh Orcs attack the rear 
of the Dwarven host.
If the Skill Endeavour is successful, then the Dwarves 
are able to rally despite the sudden assault, and take refuge 
in Rath Sereg until dawn — a bitter, hard-fought victory. If 
the Skill Endeavour fails, then the Dwarves have little hope 
of escape. A few might break the encircling line of Orcs and 
escape across the plains, to be hunted down by Orcs. The 
Player- heroes can retreat under cover of night, or sneak 
through the tunnels under the fortress to safety.
Part 6: Homeward Bound
How do the Player- heroes return to the Dwarf- halls of the Ered 
Luin? Are they coming back in triumph, accompanying pris-
oners snatched from Orc- bondage? Or are they bringing news 
of the defeat of the Dwarf- host, or a tale of hard- won victory?
Did Floki survive, or shall he be entombed along with 
his brother?
If the heroes did well — either in rescuing the pris -
oners or in battling Hultmar — then Vilia entrusts them 
with some Dwarf- forged weapons. “Dark days are coming,”  
she whispers, “and it is best that good steel not sleep under the 
mountains.”
THE RANGERS ARRIVE!
If the heroes aided Orothel the Ranger, or if they 
are allies of Gilraen, then the Rangers of the North 
might arrive out of the grey mists in the nick of time, 
stern- faced warriors striking in the rear of the Orcs’ 
lines to give the Dwarves a chance to reform and 
retreat. The Rangers are accompanied by the sons of 
Elrond, their swords flashing as they drive back the 
spirits and lift the hearts of their Company with song.
Different Patrons might provide different aid 
to their allies — Balin might show up with Dwarves 
from the Blue Mountains, or Círdan might send Elves 
from the Havens. Gandalf might arrive in the nick of 
time, light blazing from his staff to dismay the Orcs.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 94 =====

Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 95 =====

CHAPTER 6
THE QUEST OF  
AMON GURUTHOS
Get out you old Wight! Vanish in the sunlight! 
Shrivel like the cold mist, like the winds go wailing, 
Out into the barren lands, far beyond the mountains! 
Come never here again! Leave your barrow empty! 
Lost and forgotten be, darker than the darkness, 
Where gates stand for ever shut, till the world is mended.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 96 =====

CHAPTER 6
92
he heroes set out on a journey to the far north, to 
seek answers among the folk of that region. Long 
is the journey, and perilous, but the characters 
may find friends amid the snow and ice — even 
friends unlooked- for.
The Forodwaith — the northern waste — is a land vir -
tually unknown to most people of Middle- earth. In ancient 
times, it lay under the dominion of the Enemy, for the for -
tress of Angband lay in that region. Elves crossing from the 
West made their way through the icy wastes, but not even the 
great mariners of Númenor braved the crushing ice- fields 
and treacherous bays. Mortals have long dwelt there, a hardy 
and secretive folk who learned to survive in the cold lands.
The heroes have met one such tribe in a previous adven-
ture — the folk of Jagat, who dwelt in the western portion of 
the Forodwaith, around the Ice Bay of Forochel. So, one pos-
sible path would be to retrace the famous journey of Arvedui 
Last- king, and go north along the Ered Luin to the barren 
lands of the Cape of Forochel. Another option is to take the 
long road to Lond Daer (or the Grey Havens, if the charac -
ters are friendly with Círdan) and sail around the cape into 
the frozen waters.
The bravest option is to follow the path that the unfor -
tunate Déor probably intended to tread, and follow the 
line of the Misty Mountains past the dreadful haunted 
ruins of Carn Dûm, and come into the Forodwaith from 
the south.
If the Company approaches Forochel from the west, run 
Part 1: Cold Welcom e. If they approach from the south, skip 
straight onto Part 2: The Wasteland.
THE CHOICE OF PATHS
There are several clues that might set the Company on 
a path leading north.
 ♦ The Player- heroes have found the shell amulet on 
the corpse of Déor — its possession implies a con -
nection to the Snowmen of Forochel. If Déor was 
a spy out of Mordor, why was he on his way to the 
Lossoth?
 ♦ Similarly, if the heroes triumphed at the fort of 
Rath Sereg, then clues found there in Snava’s 
chamber point north too.
 ♦ They might even set off into the North in search 
of the Hill with no more guidance than the vague 
rumour that the Hill of Fear lies somewhere 
beyond Carn Dûm, or follow their dreams or the 
guidance of their Patron.
For Player- heroes who need a little more prompting:
 ♦ Characters who undertake to Gather Rumours during 
a Fellowship Phase hear stories of bad dreams and 
ill- omens among the few folk who dwell in the 
northern reaches of Eriador. The Elven travelling- 
companies speak of sinister voices on the wind.
 ♦ A Patron might send the characters north to inves -
tigate the growing threat of the Hill of Fear. Gan -
dalf, Balin, Gilraen or Bilbo might recommend the 
landward route past the ruins of Carn Dûm; Cír -
dan recommends travel by sea. Tom doesn’t care 
how the characters get there, as long as it rhymes.
 ♦ Elwing of Lond Daer might bring word of peril 
from the North, carrying a message from Jagat of 
the Lossoth. She tells the heroes that the peo -
ple of the Uttermost North are troubled by foul 
dreams and evil forces, much like they encoun -
tered on the Isle of the Mother.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 97 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
93
Planning the Expedition
Reaching the far northern expanses of Forodwaith is such a 
long journey that the Company likely needs to carefully plan 
their route. There is little good hunting north of Evendim, 
so the Player- heroes cannot rely on living off the land, and 
would be wise to find a place to resupply en route.
The regular Journey rules assume that the characters 
are travelling in lands where they can find food while 
travelling; Journey Events targeting a Hunter may force 
the Company to delay for a short time, but do not force 
them to turn back.
Foraging in the Northern Waste is so difficult that 
all HUNTING  rolls are Ill- favoured, and increase the 
Fatigue penalty for a failed roll by 1.
Part 1: Cold Welcome
The Lossoth dwell primarily on the northern peninsula, far 
from their enemies, but sometimes cross the gulf to hunt in 
the lands around the Ice- bay. Jagat’s tribe spends more of the 
season than most on its southern shores. Few folk of Eriador 
ever visit this land. The Player- heroes find themselves blinking 
at the harsh sunlight reflected off the snow that cloaks the 
mountainsides even in the height of summer. The days here 
are strangely long; the nights short and bright.
Like the other Snowmen, Jagat’s tribe are nomadic, fol -
lowing the grazing of reindeer and the shifting seasons. They 
make skates of bone to travel swiftly over frozen ice and snow, 
and make skis from birch or climbing gear from bone to travel 
in the mountains. They dwell in tents of reindeer- hide that 
can easily be taken down and moved.
If the characters arrived here with Elwing of Lond Daer, 
then she knows where Jagat’s tribe makes its camp, and she 
can sail the Company there directly. Otherwise, the charac -
ters must search for Jagat’s kinfolk.
On a successful EXPLORE  roll, Jagat’s tribe finds 
them; it requires a great or extraordinary success for 
a band of newcomers from the warm southlands to 
track down Snowmen who do not want to be found. If 
the roll fails, the Company fail to find Jagat’s kinfolk, 
and must continue east into Part 2: The Wasteland.
Meeting Jagat
If the Player- heroes have a good relationship with Jagat, he 
welcomes them warmly and invites them to share his tent. 
He gives them food and other supplies if they are running 
short. He promises to introduce them to the chieftain of 
his tribe, Egel. If the characters parted with him on poor 
terms, then he is less welcoming, but the plight of the Los -
soth in recent months is perilous enough for him to look 
to outsiders for aid.
Jagat tells the heroes that since they parted, the curse that 
troubled his expedition to the Isle of the Mother seems to 
have followed him home. The Lossoth hear strange voices in 
the air, and hunters in the woods report strange sights. Orcs 
have come down from the mountains, too.
Bad dreams plague the Lossoth. Many have dreamed of 
a dark hill in the east, and it is whispered that the Witch- king 
has returned from his kingdom in the hot south. The recur -
rent dreams can drive Men mad — or compel them to make 
offerings to the Witch- king.
Some Lossoth tribes have gone across the water to the 
northern shore, even though it is late in the year and they will 
suffer terribly from hunger. But others, he whispers, have gone 
back to the bad old ways, and offer… tribute to the Witch- king.
Others, like Jagat’s kin, have retreated west, away from 
the old borders of Angmar. His uncle Egel is chieftain, and 
he has not yet decided what to do. Egel is cautious and mis -
trusts outsiders (especially if the events of Messing About In 
Boats went badly), and Jagat worries that Egel will fall back 
on the old ways out of necessity.
Jagat can present the Player- heroes to his uncle Egel, so 
they can ask for aid — but he hopes they can also convince 
the chieftain to turn his face from the East.
Egel
Egel is old and imperious, and puts the characters in mind 
of some bird of prey, with his gaunt features, wrinkled 
skin and piercing eyes. His face remains impassive and 
unreadable when speaking with the heroes. As far as he 
is concerned, the outside world can attend to itself, and 
the Lossoth should take no part in the affairs of the south.
OCCUPATION:  Chieftain
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Stern, Wary
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 98 =====

CHAPTER 6
94
A Council with Egel
Egel gathers the heroes around his campfire, but the leaping 
flames cannot drive away the chill of his glare.
The Lore master can use the following guidelines to evaluate 
what the Company asks of him, applying the rules for councils:
 ♦ Reasonable requests (3 successes required) might be 
asking for food and basic provisions for the crossing 
of the Ice Waste, or asking Egel to tell the characters 
what he knows of the lands to the east.
 ♦ Bold requests (6 successes required) might be urging 
Egel to take his tribe across the Ice- bay, or asking for 
guides and other supplies such as Lossoth- style cloth-
ing in the journey across the Forochel.
 ♦ Outrageous requests (9 successes required) might be 
telling Egel to fight against the darkness of the Hill of 
Fear, and to rally the Snowmen against the Enemy.
Egel is Reluctant, so the Player- heroes lose (1d) by default. If 
Jagat vouches for the heroes, Egel is Open (no modifier). 
They gain (1d) if the heroes are especially Friendly with Egel, 
or if they undertook a Hunt with the Lossoth (see page 40).
Skills like COURTESY  and ENHEARTEN  work best here; 
attempts to browbeat proud Egel with AWE or confuse him 
with RIDDLE  are likely to backfire.
WISE WORDS
In conversation, Egel reveals that a darkness has returned to 
this land; the Hill of Fear is awake once more. Ancient tales 
handed down from the dark days speak of the power of Ang-
mar and the Great King in the North, of whom the Witch- king 
was but the shadow of a shadow.
Those tales speak, too, of Sea- kings and Elf- princes with 
bright swords who drove the Witch- king away. Where are these 
heroes now? If there is darkness even when the sun does not 
set, who will aid the Lossoth? Is it not wiser for the Lossoth 
to do what they must to survive?
If convinced to aid the Company, then Egel warns the 
Player- heroes about old tales. It is easy, he says, to find the Hill 
of Fear. They will see it on the horizon if they go east; indeed, 
there is no avoiding it. It will find them even if they do not seek 
it out. But the hill has a nightmarish property — no matter 
how long you walk towards it, it recedes, always lurking out of 
reach. And if you turn away from it, it pursues you until you 
can see nothing but that dark shape, until it drives you mad.
There is only one way to reach the Hill, and it is a perilous 
one. The Player- heroes must find a ruined castle of Angmar 
in the hills far to the east where an ageless sorcerer dwells. 
The tales say the place is called Sennas Gaer, and that the 
sorcerer holds the path to Amon Guruthos.
If the characters show Egel (or Jagat) the shell amulet from 
Déor’s corpse, they identify it as the sigil marking oaths taken 
by the Lossoth of that region to serve the lord of Sennas Gaer, 
and to lend assistance to any messenger who bore such a device.
THE AID OF THE LOSSOTH
Should the Player- heroes convince Egel to send guides with 
them, then Egel sends Jagat and two of his warriors to escort 
the Company to the edge of Egel’s territory. Egel warns Jagat to 
turn back before he sees the Hill of Fear with his waking eyes — 
it is one thing to dream of the Hill, and another thing to see it.
Being guided by the Lossoth allows the Player- heroes 
to gain (1d) on any AWARENESS , EXPLORE , HUNTING , 
and TRAVEL  rolls made while travelling in Forodwaith.
Egel may also outfit the characters with snow- shoes, Lossoth- 
style coats and furs, and other supplies for surviving in the 
north (see Across the Ice, below).
Part 2: The Wasteland
The portion of the Forodwaith north of the mountains was 
part of the Kingdom of Angmar in the dreadful days when the 
Witch- king held dominion there. Few of the Lossoth served 
him — his subjects were mostly Men of Eriador, as well as Orcs 
and other monsters. Now that Angmar is gone, the Lossoth 
sometimes travel through this wasteland on the way to their 
summer- camps in the north, but they do not linger here. It 
is not a good land to dwell in.
Across the Ice
In terms of the rules for Journeys, traversing the icy waste 
is resolved as entering a Perilous Area in a Dark Land with 
a rating of 3. This means that the Player- heroes must face 3 
Events before they arrive in sight of Sennas Gaer.
 ♦ To resolve the Events the Lore master may roll on the 
Journey Events table on page 112 of The One Ring, or 
on the Northern Waste Events Table below (if so, all Player- 
heroes suffer 2 points of Fatigue for each Event).
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 99 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
95
 ♦ The snowy wilderness of Forodwaith is a bitter, unfriendly 
land to those who do not know its way. The Player- heroes 
lose (1d) on all rolls while on the Journey, or (2d) if they 
do not have Lossoth- style furs and equipment.
 ♦ At a suitably unwelcome point in the Journey, the char-
acters hear shrieking on the wind. More spirits from the 
Hill of Fear ride the air, dragging down more snow and 
storms from the Far North. For the rest of the Journey, 
all AWARENESS  and EXPLORE  rolls are Ill- favoured.
When finally through, the characters glimpse what looks like 
the remains of a castle on a hilltop. Smoke rises from the 
chimney, suggesting the place is still inhabited. A keen- sighted 
character might even spot a white figure standing in one of 
the windows, watching them struggle against the driving snow 
(go to Part 3: Sennas Gaer).
NORTHERN WASTE EVENTS TABLE
FEAT DIE EVENT DESCRIPTION
Snava’s Malice The heroes glimpse Snava the Orc in the distance. Spotting the Company, Snava might call down 
Orcs from the mountains, or summon the spirits of the Hill of Fear to delay them while he heads 
for Sennas Gaer.
1 Dreams of 
the Hill
All the Player- heroes are tormented by dreams of the Hill of Fear, rising like a dark wave. 
All heroes gain 2 Shadow points (Dread).
2 Snowstorms Terrible snow storms make travel virtually impossible. This counts as Severe Cold, or Moderate for 
all those who wear Lossoth- style clothing and furs ( The One Ring , page 134).
3 Not Welcome 
Here
The Company comes upon an eerie icon of woven branches and animal bones — a warning from the 
people of this land that they are not welcome here. All heroes gain 1 Shadow point (Dread).
4 Perilous 
Crevasse
Call for an EXPLORE  roll; if the Company’s Scout fails, they fall into a hidden chasm — a Grievous 
Fall (The One Ring , page 134).
5 Fell Shades 
on the Wind
Wraiths from the Hill of Fear torment the player- heroes (use the stats on page 109 ).
6 Hunter Ambush The hunters lie in wait for the heroes, lurking in the woods or concealed in the snow.
7 Ancient Ruins 
of Angmar
The travellers come upon an ancient ruined keep that dates back to the days of Angmar. It’s intact 
enough to offer shelter from the cold, but evil yet sleeps in those old stones.
8 Chance- meeting In this empty land there are no other travellers — and yet the heroes spy someone moving in the 
distance. Is it one of the Lossoth? A messenger? Aya of the Unwilling ( page 97 )? Or a shadow of 
the past, a ghost against the snow.
9 Shadow of 
the Hunters
The heroes see a pack of hunters (see page 39 ) pursuing them. How do the characters deal with 
this threat? Hide? Turn and fight? Or press on and hope to outdistance their pursuers?
10 Wonder of 
the North
A strange sight unknown in the southlands — a huge elk, perhaps, a glacier glittering in the sun -
light, or a river of churning ice. One character in the Company recovers 1 Hope.
A light in 
the North
The clouds part for a brief moment, and a light shines from the far west — it is the light of Eärendil, 
the Flammifer of Westernesse! The Valar have not turned their faces from Middle- earth. All heroes 
may reduce their Shadow by 2.
RUINS OF CARN DÛM
Travellers approaching this region from the south 
must pass the ruins of the city of the Witch-  king. 
The realm of Angmar was destroyed so utterly by 
the alliance of the Lindon Elves and the army of 
Gondor that neither “Man nor Orc remained west 
of the mountains”, but while the capital city of Carn 
Dûm was abandoned, it was not wholly destroyed, 
and has been re- occupied by Orcs and evil Men in 
the centuries since. Now, as the Hill of Fear awak -
ens, it shall draw more people to dwell in the city, 
in anticipation of the Witch- king’s return.
For now, however, Carn Dûm is a sullen, 
watchful evil. Adventures there are beyond the 
scope of this supplement.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 100 =====

CHAPTER 6
96
THE HUNTERS
Evil folk — descendants of the Men of Angmar for the most 
part, but they have intermarried with some Lossoth — dwell 
in the hills. For now, they permit the Lossoth to pass, but 
attack other travellers. The Player- heroes risk being attacked 
on their journey unless they are dressed Snowman- fashion, 
or have the shell amulet once carried by Déor. These hunt -
ers stalk the heroes, using their snowshoes and bone- edged 
skates to stay out of reach and conserve their energy, waiting 
until their prey runs into difficulty before striking.
If the characters have the shell amulet, they may attempt 
to interact with the hunters, and convince them to guide them 
to Sennas Gaer. The hunters have already been contacted 
by Snava, and believe that the Witch- king is returning. If the 
characters have the shell amulet, the hunters mistake them 
for fellow servants of Sauron.
In case a fight should break out, use the Lossoth Hunt-
ers statistics on page 39. There are two Hunters for each 
Player- hero.
BURNT OFFERINGS
As they travel, the heroes find the remains of a bonfire. There 
are few trees in this part of the world, so clearly someone went 
to great trouble to drag these heavy logs down from the hills 
and build them into a pyre. Sifting through the ashes, the 
characters find fragments of burnt bone, including a human 
skull. This is all that remains of an offering to the Hill of Fear; 
some of the Lossoth have fallen back into the worship of the 
Dark Lord. The encounter is worth 2 points of Shadow (Dread).
Should the characters succumb to exhaustion on their 
journey, this is the fate that awaits them.
THE HILL OF FEAR
At the halfway point of their trek across the ice, the heroes 
see the Hill of Fear in the distance. It is almost as they have 
seen it in their dreams — a dark stain on the horizon, a fixed 
point like an axel around which the world revolves. The one 
difference is that it is not quite so dark — in their dreams, 
the sides of the Hill are black as though scorched, but now 
there is a dusting of snow on its flanks, brushing it with white-
ness. It is as though some internal heat has diminished — or 
maybe it is returning, awakening like the fires of Mount Doom.
The sight of the Hill becomes maddening. Everything is the 
same, the snowy earth mirrored by the frozen white seas and the 
white clouds above, and that dark hill is the only solid shape, the 
only colour, the only real thing. The characters traipse across 
the snow towards it until, exhausted, they must make camp.
The next day, the Hill is no closer. It seems to move away 
from the travellers. Sometimes it recedes into the distance, as 
if it is moving away from them; at other times, the characters’ 
path brings them into some dip in the terrain or there is a 
flurry of snow that blocks their view for a moment, and when 
they can see clearly again, the Hill is now off to one side, as 
if the characters have gone in the wrong direction. No mat -
ter how the characters struggle, they cannot reach the Hill.
There are two exceptions to this unnatural defence.
 ♦ A MAGICAL SUCCESS: If the characters have some way 
of obtaining a magical EXPLORE  success, they can pen-
etrate the defences of the Hill of Fear and find their 
way to the Witch- king’s Road (go to page 103).
 ♦ THROUGH SENNAS GAER: The house of Sennas Gaer 
conceals a secret route to the Hill. If the characters 
have no other way to make progress, they must turn to 
Sennas Gaer. If the heroes are unaware of its existence, 
they happen upon the ruins of the house after an 
unsuccessful attempt to penetrate the Hill’s defences.
ORCS!
If your group includes several doughty warriors and 
sword- wielding heroes who take particular delight 
in head- cleaving and orc- chopping, then the vil -
lainous Orc Snava might have sent word to the Orcs 
of Mount Gundabad to keep watch for intruders 
from the south. In this case, the hills are thronged 
with watchful — and hungry — Orcs who need slay -
ing. These Orcs are led by an Orc- chieftain named 
Gorgol, who wields a mighty axe taken from the 
tombs of the Dwarf- kings in Gundabad.
Alternatively, if Hultmar Manyhanded is still 
alive, then he would gladly take revenge on the 
thieves who robbed him of his Dwarven prisoners.
Part 3: Sennas Gaer
In the early part of the Third Age of the World, the Witch-  
king founded the kingdom of Angmar, in the shadow of the 
mountains. There, he taught his followers the worship of evil 
powers, revealing to them that the Dark Lord was the one true 
god in Middle- earth, that he had long ago claimed dominion 
over all Mortal Men, and that he alone could grant eternal life.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 101 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
97
Now, there was one Man of Angmar who proved espe -
cially worthy of the Witch- king’s tutelage. He learned well, 
and served loyally, and was in turn rewarded with wealth and 
power and the secrets of sorcery. To him were given many 
things — dominion over the wide lands of the north, and care 
of the sacred Hill of Fear, and a magic ring that extended his 
life, so that he lived on and on even as his sons and his sons’ 
sons grew old and died.
And yet, when the war came, the lord of the house rode 
away south with all his knights, and there he was mortally 
wounded in battle. He fled the field and returned to Sennas 
Gaer, and there — for all his power, for all the gifts of the 
Witch- king, for all his magic — he shared the same doom as 
all mortals, and died.
Angmar fell, and the castle was abandoned. It fell into 
ruin; the Lossoth shunned the place, believing it to be 
haunted.
Then from the east came a stranger, and she took the 
ruins of the castle as her home for a few centuries. Her name 
is Aya; she is an Elf, but not of any of the Elf- kindreds com-
monly encountered in the west of Middle- earth. She comes 
from a branch of Elf- kind who never saw the light of the 
Blessed Realm, and instead hid from the messengers of 
the Valar. They are a secretive and strange folk, dwellers in 
hidden glades and caves, rarely encountering the other folk 
of Middle- earth. They delight in shadow and twilight, and 
see little point in speaking to others. While they took no 
part in the wars between the Dark Lord and the other Elves 
of old, still they were hated by Sauron and his followers, and 
so they have been hunted and tormented. Some, it is said, 
have even turned to worship of the dark, but such tales may 
be lies spread by Sauron.
Few of these curious Elves remain in the Third Age, and 
none west of the Misty Mountains. It is virtually certain that 
none of the Player- heroes have met an Elf of Aya’s kind before.
Aya of the Unwilling
Aya may be among the last of her kind in Middle- earth. 
Most of her kindred fell prey to misfortune, or were hunted 
by the servants of Mordor, or have so faded away that 
they are quite invisible to the eyes of mortals. She has 
been alone with only birds and beasts and the occasional 
mortal for company for many, many years; to her, all the 
world is like a passing stream, and she is all that remains 
timeless. The Elf- havens of Rivendell, Lórien and Mithlond 
are preserved, frozen in time, but Aya has no such refuge. 
She sees only the changing world.
She came to Sennas Gaer seven hundred years ago, 
more than three centuries after the defeat of the Witch-  
king. Back then, the Hill of Fear was dormant, but the place 
still fascinated her. As one of the Eldar, Aya does not share 
in death, the Doom assigned to mortals when the world 
was made. Amon Guruthos is the Hill of the Fear of Death, 
and in its presence even the undying can taste the terror 
reserved for mortals.
Aya is a strange, fey creature. In temperament she is 
more like an Ent or child than some wise Elf- prince like 
Elrond; she is curious about the world, but in a detached, 
almost alien manner. She considers herself neutral in the 
great struggle between the Free Folk and the Shadow, 
and would hide from the princes of the Noldor as swiftly 
as she might from the forces of Sauron.
To Aya, the Player- heroes are a novelty, an entertain -
ment. She is fascinated by these strangers; much as a bored 
child might put a fallen fledgling bird back in a nest, she 
desires to keep the characters away from the Hill. At times, 
her mask slips, revealing her own loneliness and confusion 
— she still does not know her place in the world.
OCCUPATION:  Hermit
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Wary, Keen-eyed
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 102 =====

CHAPTER 6
98
The Ruined Castle
The wild Elf watches the approaching characters from a van-
tage point in the rubble of the castle, hidden from sight. An 
AWARENESS  roll warns the characters they are being watched, 
but it takes an extraordinary success to spot the white- clad 
figure of Aya.
Exploring the ruined castle, the characters find three 
things of note — first, there are some weathered statues 
and mosaics in the style of the Men of Westernesse; stern 
lords staring out of stone, one hand upraised in a gesture 
of blessing, the other laid upon sword or axe. One statue in 
particular has endured better than the rest, but that is not 
a wholesome sight. The carven face is cruel and sneering, 
with a mocking smile twisting about the lips. Instead of a 
gesture of blessing, the outstretched hand clutches into a fist, 
and he is depicted wearing a jewelled ring. On the plinth is 
the name GURGOLWEN; beneath, in much smaller letters, 
is another inscription, mostly illegible, but it seems to be a 
list of the names of the sons, grandsons and possibly great- 
and great- great- grandsons of this Gurgolwen. Alternatively, 
maybe ‘Gurgolwen’ is a title that was passed down through 
many generations.
Second, in the courtyard, there is a huge door in the 
ground. A ramp — mostly choked with snow — leads down to 
the door, which is wide enough for two horses to ride abreast 
down into whatever underground chamber it guards. The 
door is bound in iron, and does not move no matter how 
the characters push or hew at it. It cannot be opened, and 
must be sealed magically. This is the door to the Witch- king’s 
road (page 103). Aya laid a spell on it to keep it closed, and 
it only opens with her permission.
Third, the characters find a curious structure amid the 
ruins of the castle — a cottage made with salvaged stone 
from fallen buildings. Piled outside the front door are furs 
and other offerings from the Lossoth. This is the house of 
the Elf Aya.
Inside the Cottage
Inside is a small but comfortable house of several rooms. 
A fire burns merrily in the grate, stew bubbles in the pot, 
and the house inside is warm and cosy. It’s weirdly out of 
place, like finding a Hobbit- hole in the middle of the Misty 
Mountains.
What do the characters do? Aya’s initial attitude to them 
is determined by their actions. Do they make themselves at 
home? Loot the place for supplies? Assume that it’s some 
deceit of the Enemy? Make an offering, like the Lossoth?
MEETING AYA
Aya emerges from hiding once she is assured that the Player- 
heroes are not dangerous (if she fears they are dangerous, 
then she waits until they are asleep, then sneaks out to put a 
knife to the throat of their Look- out). Almost shyly, she wel-
comes the characters to her home. She is fond of Mortal Men, 
wary of Dwarves, fearful and nervous in the presence of Elves 
of Lindon or Rivendell (Wood- Elves of Mirkwood are more 
like her, and she is comfortable in their presence). Hobbits 
amuse her, but she has not seen their kind in many years — 
she watched Hobbits when they dwelt in the Gladden Fields, 
many centuries ago.
To the Player- heroes, Aya might seem almost ghostly — 
a pale Woman in a white gown, dark-  haired, with eyes like 
distant stars. In conversation, she is strange and hesitant, for 
she rarely converses with others, and she mixes in words from 
strange tongues or the speech of bird and beast, and makes 
references to people and places from long ago and far away.
If asked for her own story, Aya shrugs and says she has 
wandered alone for a long time. She took no part in the 
Wars of Elves in drowned Beleriand, and takes no part in 
the Wars of Men in Eriador. No- one is on her side, and she 
is on no- one’s side.
She found this place centuries ago, when it was only ruins, 
and made her home here for a little while. There is a power 
in the Hill nearby that fascinates her. It is Death, and Death 
is something the Elves cannot know. She has watched the 
world change and fade over and over; there is nothing that 
is not marred, nothing that is not broken and dying, except 
for Elven- kind.
She has little knowledge of present- day Middle- earth 
beyond the Forodwaith. She has heard of the ‘lands of the 
sons of Eärendil’, but has no knowledge of any other mortal 
kingdoms, and believes that the other Elves have mostly fled 
across the sea. She has never heard of newer lands like Rohan 
or Dale, and is unaware of the fall of Arnor. Such matters 
hold no interest for her.
Aya asks the characters what they seek here, and why.
 ♦ If they say they’re here to destroy the Hill of Fear, she 
laughs. Other heroes have tried and failed, and have 
either fled in terror or perished in the dark. Of course 
the characters can throw their lives away if they wish, 
but it’s like trying to turn back the tide by throwing 
pebbles into the water. The quest is folly.
 ♦ If they say they’re trying to help the Lossoth, then 
Aya shrugs. The Lossoth who make offerings and wor -
ship the dark do not fear the Hill. Let the other mor -
tals bow to Sauron and believe that he will save them 
from death.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 103 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
99
If the characters continue to ask about the Hill of Fear, or 
threaten to leave Aya’s home, then she asks them to stay the 
night, promising to provide them with hot food and an eve -
ning of rest and entertainment. She will open the way to the 
Hill of Fear in the morning.
A successful INSIGHT  roll can tell that Aya is not sim-
ply lonely, but has been alone so long that she no 
longer sees others as thinking beings like her. It is 
a form of solipsism; she sees the rest of the world as 
a single entity, all not- Aya, and has lost the ability to 
connect with others.
The Evening Feast
Aya closes the shutters over the windows, blocking out the light 
of the low winter sun. She serves the heroes a meal of venison 
and vegetables, and from some unlikely cellar she produces 
wine and honey. As they eat, she sings songs in an archaic form 
of Elvish that make the heroes feel like they sit beneath strange 
stars, and the world around them is young and fair.
Aya asks the characters to return the favour by enter -
taining her with a story or song. How do the Player-  heroes 
respond, and which story or song does each one tell? If they 
remain silent, that too is a choice — what do they say to their 
host to explain their silence?
Aya is visibly entranced by whichever Player- hero has 
the best RIDDLE  or SONG  result, or if one of the char-
acters tells a tale that’s especially relevant (she makes 
Aya’s Offer to that character during the night).
OUT OF THE WAY, ANNOYING ELF!
Some Player- heroes may grow impatient with Aya’s 
strange ways, or suspect her of being in league 
with their enemies. If they force the issue, then Aya 
scornfully tells them that she will open the way to 
the Hill of Fear for them, so they may go to their 
doom quickly, and carry her curse with them. If they 
attack, she flees, vanishing into the mountains of 
Angmar, and the characters may force the trapdoor 
open. The door now opens easily.
SOLACE FOR AYA
Player- heroes who take pity on the troubled Elf 
might wish for her to find a better fate than hiding 
here until the world falls utterly under the shadow. 
Healing Aya’s wounded soul is beyond the power 
of any of them, but they could direct her to those 
who could help.
Some possibilities follow:
 ♦ THE HAVENS:  Aya’s folk rejected the journey 
west to the Undying Lands, and hid from 
the emissaries of the Valar when the world 
was young. She does not know that ships 
are still sailing from the Grey Havens, and 
assumes that there is no place for her on 
such a ship — her fate is bound to Middle-  
earth forever. However, if a Player- hero 
(especially an Elf of Lindon) speaks to Cír -
dan on her behalf, then a place could be 
found for her.
 ♦ GANDALF:  The Grey Pilgrim has the Ring of 
Fire, and can kindle flames in the hearts of 
the hopeless. Gandalf could likely convince 
Aya to take a side in the struggle between 
the Enemy and the Free Folk, giving her 
new purpose — although joining the fight 
against Sauron would likely result ultimately 
in Aya’s destruction.
 ♦ TOM BOMBADIL:  Tom’s attitude is quite like 
Aya’s, although he is a much merrier and 
more contented fellow. Aya knows Tom of 
old as Iarwain Ben-  Adar, although she does 
not know that he still walks the woods of 
Middle- earth. If told of him and his house, 
she is astounded and fascinated. A few 
years’ rest and healing in the company of 
Tom and Lady Goldberry, and Aya might be 
a changed and renewed Elf, and the char -
acters might meet her laughing and danc -
ing in the woods of the Shire in the spring.
Aya rejects any suggestion of going to Rivendell 
or Lórien — she will take no part in the wars of 
the High Elves.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 104 =====

CHAPTER 6
100
AN UNEXPECTED GUEST
In the midst of this strange feast, there is the sound of foot -
steps, with one foot dragging, then comes a knock at the 
door. Aya frowns and says, “Ah, the wretch has returned. Heed 
me — there shall be no violence under my roof, or my curse shall fall 
upon thee! I take no side; I have no enemy.”  She bids one of the 
characters to open the door.
Waiting on the doorstep is a figure wrapped in a heavy 
cloak, encrusted with snow, one hand raised against the wan 
sunlight, the other grasping a strangely- carved staff. The fig-
ure is neither Man nor Elf, but an Orc. This is Snava, the spy 
who ordained the attack on Flonar’s camp, who commanded 
Déor’s death, and who woke the Hill of Fear. He is a spy from 
Minas Morgul, an Orc- messenger steeped in sorcery and evil 
cunning. He snarls in alarm at the sight of the Player- heroes.
What do the characters do? Strike him down or welcome 
him in?
 ♦ ATTACKING SNAVA: The Orc is a dangerous foe, even 
when fatigued from a long journey, and he knows how 
to call on the evil spirits of the Hill of Fear. If attacked, 
Snava turns and flees, running into the wilderness 
towards the Hill of Fear where the characters cannot 
follow. Aya is infuriated by the characters’ abuse of her 
hospitality, and curses the character who struck the 
first blow. Aya’s curse has power — for the rest of the 
character’s life, any Company they are part of loses (1d) 
in all Councils.
 ♦ INVITING THE ORC IN: Snava limps into the cottage 
and takes a seat in the corner, glaring suspiciously at 
the heroes around him. “Telling tales, are we? Stories by 
the firelight? Well, I’ve a tale for you, and it’s the only one 
that’s true. But I’ll wait my turn. You get your stories, and 
mine comes last.”
If asked why an Orc is welcome under her roof, Aya explains 
that Snava has been here before. “He first passed this way a few 
years ago, looking for Amon Guruthos. I put an arrow in his leg when I 
saw him — Orcs have hunted me in the past. But he begged me to spare 
him, and I did. I have no enemies. I do not judge.” Still, she remains 
wary of Snava, and does not get within reach of his knife.
If any of the Player- heroes mention the sword Estelang, 
then Snava’s eyes glitter with interest.
THE ORC’S TALE
Once all the characters have spoken, Snava clears his throat 
with a foul noise. He grins, clearly enjoying this rare oppor -
tunity to torment the heroes.
“I don’t have pretty words like you, and my story ain’t about long- 
agos and never- wases. Listen well — the Great Eye is looking north 
across the River. He’s got the filthy Tarks to deal with first, but when 
He’s done with them, He’ll come for you, and oh, won’t that be a glo-
rious day. We’ll finish what Angmar started, mark my words, and 
smash your little towns. Drive the Elves into the Sea and burn all 
their pretty ships. All the mountains are teeming with our lot — the 
mountain- maggots ain’t much good, but we’ve got a hundred of ‘em 
for every one of you.”
“And there are other things, too, older things, that we’ll whip up. 
Yon hill for one — He made it in the first war, and I woke it up. Fed it, 
too — it likes a bit of meat, and there are plenty of hungry ones below 
who smelled the blood. There are things not even the Elves know, and 
oh, they’ll be ready when the big push comes. They’ll be ready, my friends 
— and you’ll all be dead. The last war is coming, and you’re going 
to lose. Want my advice? Bow to Him. Bow before the Dark Throne, 
bow before Lugbúrz, and maybe the Eye will look upon you with pity. 
Elseways…”  He draws his finger across his throat and laughs.
If asked about the Hill of Fear, then Snava laughs. “No 
harm in telling you. No harm in telling. It’s your ending, that’s what’s 
down there. The end of everything. I’ve seen it. I’ve seen it with my 
own eyes, my friends. I came back to do the rites and open more of 
the gates, but killing me won’t stop it. It can’t be stopped now. His 
power is rising, and your time is over.”
The one thing that can give Snava pause is the sight of the 
sword Estelang. The Orc flinches, then laughs. “So you’ve dug 
up some old ironmongery. I’ve heard tell of that blade. Doesn’t matter. 
Know what happened to the last Man who brought that sword here? 
He went mad and ran away. And everyone who came with him died. 
He abandoned them to die down in the dark, or so the story goes.”
EVENTS IN THE NIGHT
A night spent with such a diverse group of guests under the 
same roof isn’t likely to be uneventful — in particular, two 
things may come to pass.
SNAVA STEALS THE SWORD: If the Orc Snava sees that a Player- 
hero carries the sword Estelang, he could creep into the bed-
room of the swordbearer and try to steal it. The character (or 
the Look- out, if the heroes set a watch) gets an AWARENESS  
roll to spot the sneaky Orc; if spotted, Snava makes a lunge for 
the sword. If he gets away with the blade, he intends to throw 
it into the bottomless well atop the Hill of Fear (page 106).
If Snava has no opportunity to steal the sword, then he 
stalks the Player- heroes as they travel the Witch- king’s Road 
(page 103). Optionally, he might call upon the Evil Men who 
dwell nearby, invoking their old loyalty to Angmar so they aid 
him in pursuing the heroes.
AYA’S OFFER: If any of the mortal Player- heroes have attracted 
Aya’s attention, and the characters have not suggested a way 
for her to find solace (see page 99), then the Elf approaches 
them in private, almost shyly. “The Orc is right. I fear there can 
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 105 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
101
be no escape from the Shadow, and all efforts to fight it are in vain. 
But neither will I give in. I will find what joy I may, in the time that 
is left to me, however long or short that is. You could come with me. 
I have this.” She holds up a jewelled ring — the same ring the 
characters saw on the statue outside, the ring of Gurgolwen. 
“This will not let you escape the doom of mortals, but it will delay it a 
little while. Take it, and we shall flee together, and hide until the end.”
Aya’s offer is genuine — she no longer wishes to reside 
here, and believes that struggling against the Shadow is futile. 
The ring, too, is a genuine magical item.
Accepting Aya’s offer immediately means the chosen char-
acter leaves the campaign. However, a character could prom-
ise to return to Aya after the Quest of Amon Guruthos, or 
suggest one of the options under Solace for Aya (page 99).
Opening the Way
The next morning, if the heroes are still set on this path, then 
Aya will open the door in the heart of the ruin of Sennas Gaer. 
This, she explains, is the Witch- king’s Road, a ceremonial path 
that runs underground part of the way to the Hill of Fear. Down 
this road in days of old rode the Witch- king of Angmar and his 
dark priests and sorcerers; down this road came the doom of the 
North Kingdom. This is the only road that can reach the Hill.
This is a road she cannot follow.
Aya gestures, and the great iron- bound doors grind open. 
The pale sun does not illuminate the darkness beyond. The 
characters must light torches and bring their own light with 
them as they walk in dark places.
If Snava is still alive, then the Orc waits until the Company 
have entered the dark tunnel, then he silently pads after them, 
bent on turning the magic of Amon Guruthos against them…
THE RING OF GURGOLWEN
While this ring has been sullied by the hand of Sau -
ron, who took it from the workshops of the Jewel-  
smiths in Hollin of old, it is still a potent item. It has 
the Blessings of AWE  and CRAFT , and also prolongs 
the wearer’s life indefinitely, though the joy of life 
fades — while the ring is in their possession, the 
wearer cannot pick the Heal Scars  undertaking 
during Yule (see The One Ring , page 137).
SNAVA THE ORC
Cunning, Wary
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
48
MIGHT
2
HATE
6
PARRY
+4
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Great Spear 3 (5/16, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Dreadful Spells . Spend 1 Hate to make 
one Player- hero gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery). Tar -
gets who fail their Shadow test or who are Miserable 
are assaulted by a bodiless wight, and for the rest of the 
fight they lose (1d)  on all rolls.
Snake- like Speed. When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Yell of Triumph . Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs and Undead in the fight.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 106 =====

CHAPTER 6
102
Part 4: Amon Guruthos
When the black breath blows
and death’s shadow grows
and all lights pass…
RUMOUR
“I’ve dreamed of this dark hill for a while now. Maybe I dreamed 
of it when I was young, once or twice, but these last few years, it’s 
haunted my dreams every night. It’s strange to be scared of a hill, 
isn’t it? A hill can’t hurt you. Hills are just… there.
I think that’s why it scares me, somehow. It’s there, and it’s 
always been there, and it will always be there. And I won’t. It gets 
into your head and reminds you that you’re… fleeting. The child 
who dreamed of that hill is gone like the winds of spring, and the 
Man who dreams of it now grows old and tired, and the hill’s 
unchanged. It’s like it’s… no, that’s a foolish thought.
Hills don’t eat people.”
OLD LORE
“Of old, the Great Enemy Morgoth raised his fortress in the uttermost 
north, and declared that all Middle- earth was his dominion. He 
put forth his power to claim the land. The Hill of Amon Guruthos 
rose like a dark wave, a bastion of his malice, and there of old the 
fathers of the fathers of Men held dark rites in worship of the Enemy.
Heroes tried to put an end to the malice of the Hill of Fear, but 
none succeeded. At times, its power faded and the Hill withdrew 
from the minds of Men; but that was temporary, the shadow returned 
and the Hill troubled the world once more.
In later years, the Hill of Fear was a stronghold of Angmar, and 
the Witch- king presided over the rites. From the hilltop, he called up 
evil spirits, and sent them to trouble the sleep of the North Kingdoms. 
After the defeat of the Witch- king, it is said that warriors from the 
House of Elrond entered the hill and found it deserted, and so it 
must be hoped that an end has come to this malice of Morgoth.”
Background
The Hill of Fear was made as a tool of domination, a way for 
Morgoth — and, in latter years, his acolytes and followers 
— to rule over the minds of mortals. The Elves are wise, for 
in their tongue this place is Amon Guruthos, the Hill of the 
Shadow of Death. It is a monument to remind mortals that 
they shall inevitably die. Once this horror was impressed on 
SNAVA’S KEYS
Around Snava’s neck is a strip of leather, and 
strung on it are two keys. One is made of Mithril, 
the other of iron, and the end of the iron key is 
damaged, as if hacked free in haste. The two keys 
are plainly identical, made to fit the same lock, 
and both have runes in the mode of Daeron 
carved into the barrel.
The runes differ between the keys. Carved 
into the barrel of the iron key, the runes say 
in the Common Tongue “17TH PILLAR DIMRILL 
STAIR”; the Mithril key also bears runes, but these are in 
the secret tongue of the Dwarves, and only a Dwarf can 
read the message “CURSED BE HE WHO MISUSES ME”.
These keys both fit a secret lock hidden in the Dimrill 
Pass, which opens a secret door into Moria. The Mithril 
key is the original, and was captured by the 
Orcs long ago and brought by secret ways to 
Barad- Dûr, where it was entrusted to Snava many 
centuries later for the furtherance of his evil mission. 
The iron key is a copy made by Dwarves in the last 
days of Moria when the city was under assault by 
Durin’s Bane; refugees fleeing Khazad- Dûm 
took it with them as they escaped across 
Eriador (this key was held in the archives 
of the Blue Mountains, and was carried by 
Flonar — see page 76 ).
Now, should the Player-  heroes come 
into possession of any of the two keys, they would 
command a secret route into the forbidden city… If the 
heroes capture Snava, he might trade the keys for his life 
— and then try to turn the power of the Hill against them.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 107 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
103
mortals, it was easy for Morgoth to deceive them with prom -
ises of eternal life and woo them to his service.
Morgoth conjured this utter terror by means of a magic 
mirror that reflects only the unknowable, eternal void beyond 
Creation, the infinite darkness untouched by the light of the 
One. From this void, the Witch- king would later call forth the 
spirits now known as the Barrow- wights, and other evils beside.
Locations
1. SENNAS GAER
The ruins of Sennas Gaer. This fortress never saw battle, and 
its once- formidable defences were never tested by any foe 
except the harsh weather. Sennas Gaer had a dozen great 
hearths and a host of chimneys to ward off the bitter cold, 
but still the wind found its way in.
The Elf Aya dwells in her little cottage amid the ruins. A 
dark door in the cellars leads to the Witch-king’s Road; Aya 
laid a spell on it to keep it closed, and it can only be opened 
with her permission — although there are powers in this land 
that could overcome Aya’s spell, if they put their strength 
behind the counter- magic.
2. THE WITCH- KING’S ROAD
A ceremonial passage underground. The corridor is wide 
enough for two horses to ride abreast, and tall enough 
even for a tall Númenórean to ride without fear. There 
are no light sources in the tunnel. When the sorcerers 
and princes of Angmar rode this path to attend rites at 
the Hill of Fear, it was part of the ritual that they would 
ride through utter darkness, giving them a glimpse of 
oblivion. Even though many years have passed, something 
of their fear remains:
Player- heroes travelling the Road gain 2 points of 
Shadow (Dread).
While the Road is mostly straight, it turns sharply twice. The 
passage continues a short distance in each case, ending in a 
spiked pit each time (a Grievous Fall, as per The One Ring page 
134). This was a defence against intruders, for only those who 
had been initiated into the secret of the Road would know 
when to turn aside.
With torches, the characters could easily avoid this sim -
ple trap. However, they are in a place of great malice; as they 
make their way along the road, there’s a sudden gust of icy 
wind that threatens to extinguish all the Company’s torches.
All characters bearing a torch must make a CRAFT  or 
AWARENESS  roll to react in time to protect their gut -
tering flames. If all torchbearers fail, the Company are 
plunged into darkness and must make EXPLORE  rolls 
to find their way safely along the road.
3. PRISON
A side passageway leads to a small complex of cells. Of old, 
this was a dungeon where condemned prisoners were held 
before they were sacrificed in blasphemous rites atop Amon 
Guruthos. Today, it’s the lair of a pair of Cave- trolls. Player- 
heroes sneaking down the Witch- king’s Road can smell the 
stench of the lurking Trolls with an AWARENESS  roll, and 
creep past with a STEALTH  roll. The Stealth roll is made  los-
ing (1d) if the characters are in darkness.
The Trolls, Gnaw and Grasp, have dwelt here for countless 
years, preying on the Lossoth and the animals of the Forod -
waith. Being creatures of evil, the Trolls aren’t affected by the 
magic of the Hill of Fear, and they are free to roam the area, 
catching their prey by night in the wilds.
Gnaw and Grasp are two Cave- troll Slinkers  (see 
The One Ring , page 152). Gnaw has an instinc -
tive connection to the Hill of Fear, and can draw 
strength from it — the Troll’s attacks against mor -
tals are Favoured .
4. THE SILENT WATCHERS
Two statues flank the exit from the Witch- king’s road. 
These statues depict eerie vulture- headed figures, each 
with three heads facing in different directions. There is 
power in these statues, and it takes a great effort of will 
to push through their dark gaze. Pushing past the stat -
ues causes all Player- heroes to gain 3 points of Shadow 
(Dread). If a character fails the Shadow test, they can 
still crawl across the threshold, agonisingly forcing their 
leaden limbs forward, inch by inch, dragging their reluc -
tant frames until they’re past the dreadful gaze. All that 
costs several long minutes of effort — more than enough 
time for the Trolls to scent the intruders, or for Snava to 
find the heroes while they’re helpless.
SNAVA’S MEDDLING
If Snava is stalking the Player- heroes, then he 
might ambush them in the dark — or alert the Trolls 
in the prison to their presence.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 108 =====

CHAPTER 6
104
5. IMPASSABLE REGION
This line marks the closest that the Player- heroes can approach 
the Hill of Fear without taking the Witch- king’s road. The 
magic of the Hill is almost impossible to overcome — a Wiz -
ard or an Elf- lord in full wrath might be able to break through 
the sorcerous barrier and open the way, as can a Player- hero 
with a suitable Magical Success. The magic also only works 
on those who have never set foot on the Hill; after the Player- 
heroes reach the Hill via the Witch- king’s Road, they can return 
freely (not that they are likely to have any reason to come back, 
one way or another, once the quest is done).
6. THE DESOLATION
The empty region around the Hill of Fear. There is no shelter, 
no cover, nothing between the Player- heroes and that awful 
dark tor. As they approach, it seems to grow taller, towering over 
them like a dark wave. Ask each Player- hero to describe what 
their character secretly fears will be found beneath the Hill.
7. THE SPIRAL PATH
This narrow path leads from the Witch- king’s Road to the top 
of the Hill of Fear. The sides of the hill are steep and hard to 
climb (requiring an ATHLETICS  roll to avoid slipping back), 
so this road is the only safe way up. More statues like the Silent 
Watchers line the path, although these lesser statues do not 
have the same awful power as the ones at the Witch- king’s Road.
8. HOUSES OF THE PRIESTS
In the days of Angmar, priests dwelt in these houses. Little 
remains save a few walls with hollow windows, and if the char-
acters sometimes glimpse pale, hateful faces staring at them 
from those empty windows, then it is surely their imagination, 
for there is nothing here but ruins.
Amidst those fallen stones is a hole in the ground, a bore- 
hole about two feet wide. It might be a well, but it slants at an 
angle into the hillside, and a foul reek rises from it. This hole 
was caused by the passage of the Worm- wight (page 110), 
and leads down to the Worm- lair (13). The 
tunnel widens in places and narrows in 
others; a Hobbit or small Dwarf could 
easily sneak down, but a large Man 
would be hard pressed to squeeze 
through without getting stuck or caus-
ing a cave- in.
9. THE TEMPLE RUINS
Like the houses of the priests below, this temple 
has fallen into ruin — and that is a blessing, for 
even these shattered remains have a lingering 
sense of malice that chills the blood. Broken 
carvings and fallen statues hint at dread -
ful images; the remains of the temple 
are like the hand of a skeletal giant, 
reaching out of the grave.
All characters entering the 
temple precinct gain 3 Shadow 
Points (Sorcery).
Worse, at the heart of the 
temple is an altar, wrought of 
some reddish stone and unmarked by 
the passing ages. Carvings on its side depict a dark lord on 
a dark throne; on his head is a heavy crown of iron studded 
with gemstones, and his hand reaches out to seize the world.
THE WORM-  WIGHT
Call for an AWARENESS  roll. Those who succeed feel 
the earth shake, as if something huge was moving 
just beneath the frozen ground — for something 
huge is moving beneath the frozen ground. The 
Worm- wight is abroad (see page 110 ).
COMMANDING THE SPIRITS
Snava can call upon the power of the Hill of Fear 
from this altar, calling bodiless spirits out of the well 
(see Unhoused Wraiths , on page 38).
Any character who gained any Shadow points on enter-
ing the temple cannot help but cry out ‘Hail, Dark 
King, Master of Life and Death’.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 109 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
105
AMON GURUTHOS
1
2
3
4
6
7
 8
9
10
6
5
5
11
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 110 =====

CHAPTER 6
106
10. THE DARK WELL
In front of the altar is a stone- lined well, a pit that descends 
right into the heart of the Hill of Fear. The characters cannot 
see anything at the bottom of the well; it vanishes into the 
consuming dark. The sides of the well are carved from solid 
rock, without visible joints or mortar, as if the stone melted 
and flowed. It is possible to climb down the well, but it’s dif-
ficult — all rolls lose (1d).
A character who falls into the well almost certainly per -
ishes (a Grievous Fall that proves fatal if it results in the char-
acter becoming Wounded or Dying — see page 134 of The 
One Ring), although they might be lucky enough to catch 
themselves on the lip of location 16 as they plummet.
Any characters who gain 2 or more Shadow points when 
entering the temple experience a strange and incapacitat -
ing vision. They perceive that any companions who did not 
gain Shadow points here have vanished. The world seems 
to whirl around the Hill of Fear, the heavens pinwheeling. 
Stones drag themselves across the earth and pile themselves 
up, the temple springing back into existence as it was in the 
dreadful days of Angmar. The Silent Watchers cry out in tri -
umph with voices like brass trumpets, and the doors of the 
Witch- king’s Road open. The characters see a procession of 
horsemen approaching the Hill; stern knights and lords of 
Angmar, flanked by armoured Trolls, and at their head is a 
fearsome horseman wearing a fiery crown. To the character 
who did not gain Shadow, it appears that their companions 
have frozen in place, eyes fixed open.
This is a memory or vision of the Witch- king of Ang-
mar. To break free, the characters must succeed at a 
Skill Endeavour with a Resistance equal to the total 
number of Shadow Points accrued in the temple. Char-
acters in the vision can only use WISDOM  to resist; char-
acters who escaped the spell might use ENHEARTEN  or 
HEALING  to aid their companions, or LORE  to under-
stand their plight, or ATHLETICS  to drag them away 
from the temple. The time limit for this endeavour is 
equal to the Resistance, so time is short.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 111 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
107
If the Skill Endeavour fails, then in the vision the Witch-  
king reaches the temple, and speaks a word of command. 
The afflicted characters then hurl themselves into the well 
to their deaths.
11. DOOR OF NIGHT
A heavy stone blocks this passageway that leads into the heart 
of the Hill of Fear. The stone is almost flush with the surround-
ing arch, but it can be levered out from where it rests and then 
dragged away. There are ancient scrapes and marks on the 
stone that precisely match the blade of Estelang — the magic 
sword was used to prise the entrance open many centuries ago.
The air inside the Hill stinks of rotten stale air, mixed with 
a strange smell of ash. It’s the smell of death.
12. BARROW CORRIDOR
This passageway winds around the inside of the hill. For 
the most part, it’s tall and wide enough for the explorers to 
move without impediment, but in places the ceiling bulges 
or drops down, forcing the characters to crawl. Bags of bones 
— corpses laid here wrapped in reindeer- skins — lie along 
the floor, the entombed remnants of generations of priests. 
In some sections, the corpses are so thickly packed that they 
pave the corridor, and the characters must trample the dead 
to proceed.
All these corpses are Hill- wights, the remains inhabited by 
spirits, but they do not stir. Not yet. Not until called.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 112 =====

CHAPTER 6
108
13. WORM- LAIR
A side tunnel, bored into the earth of the hill, leads up to a 
larger hollow. This is the lair of the Worm- wight (page 110), 
a wingless Dragon that once guarded the hill. It perished a 
thousand years ago, but its corpse is inhabited by a malign 
spirit that animates it. The lair of the worm is dust- dry, caked 
in dried ash like some ancient hearth. The chamber is roughly 
circular, with smaller bores leading off in different directions.
Before it died, the worm gathered the offerings and other 
treasures of the temple, and slept atop a bed of gold. This 
treasure is a Marvellous Hoard, but any items found there 
are doubtless cursed.
14. ANCIENT RUINS
The innermost tunnels within the Hill are strange indeed — it 
is as though the stone has been twisted or forced into shape 
rather than sculpted or built. No hand of Orc or Man or Elf 
built these passageways. More dead priests lie here entombed 
in niches along the corridor, but they are nothing more than 
empty black shrouds. No flesh nor bone are left in all but a 
few of these graves, and those remains that are present are 
not good to look upon. All intruders feel a crushing pres -
sure as they draw closer to the heart of the Hill, as if the full 
weight of all the many tons of earth and stone above bears 
down on them. It seems that at any moment the tunnel might 
collapse and the heroes would join the long- dead in their 
graves, entombed alive in the dark places beneath the earth.
Ask each Player- hero individually if they wish to flee.
BEWARE!  If you haven’t already, run one of the Perils of the 
Hill as the Player- heroes enter this area (see Schemes and 
Trouble, page 109 ). No intruder can walk into the Hill of 
Fear without passing a gauntlet of horrors.
RISK OF CAVE- IN!  If a Player- hero rolls an  on any roll while 
in this part of the Hill, the ceiling collapses, blocking the 
tunnel behind the Company. The victim suffers a Grievous 
Endurance loss (The One Ring, page 134).
15. INNER BARROW CORRIDOR
This corridor is similar to the outer corridor, but the corpses 
laid to slumber here are not those of the corrupted Lossoth 
— they are ancient knights and princes of Angmar, 
and beyond them, priests and cultists 
of Morgoth. Their mummi -
fied features leer across the 
Ages, and dead lips whis-
per that the Shadow is 
returning and all hope 
shall fail.
11
12
13
14
15
16
THE HEART  
OF THE HILL OF FEAR
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 113 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
109
16. THE PLACE BENEATH THE HILL
In the ceiling of this chamber is a circular opening — this is 
the bottom of the shaft that runs from the Temple (9).
At the heart of the Hill of Fear is a nothing. How the char-
acters perceive it depends on who the characters are. Most 
Elves see only an empty chasm, a black pit that falls away into 
the depths. Those mighty Elves who have the light of Aman 
in their face (WISDOM 4+, or the Virtue Against the Unseen) 
have the keenness of otherworldly sight to see a wound in the 
world down there in the pit, a gap in Creation. This is a Gate, 
conjured by the Enemy in the elder days, a door through which 
evil spirits may enter the created world from the void beyond.
Mortals, though — Men, Hobbits, Dwarves — there, they 
see the shadow of death.
The sight of this dark place conjures terribly grim visions. 
All mortals see not only what they most fear for themselves, 
but for their home and kinfolk. A Hobbit might see their own 
death here in the desolate wilds of the far north, perishing 
alone beneath the Hill, but also see horrible things happening 
to their family back in the Shire. They might glimpse Orcs 
despoiling the Shire like the Orcs attacked Flonar’s camp 
in Wonder of the Northern World, or see the Hobbit being 
imprisoned by Evil Men from Tharbad like the prisoners in 
Not To Strike Without Need. A Dwarf might see their kinfolk in 
the Blue Mountains being slaughtered, and then time grind-
ing down all the works of their hands and mind; rust and rot 
consuming all the beauty of metal and stone.
In game terms, this causes 6 points of Shadow (Dread) 
gain in all mortals!
BOUTS OF MADNESS: Characters suffering a Bout of Madness 
here suddenly perceive their companions as enemies, and 
immediately attack them. This was the horrible fate that befell 
the companions of the Hero of old — unable to endure the 
despair, that company tore itself apart. The madness ends if 
the hero leaves (or is dragged away from) the Heart of the 
Hill of Fear (outside the Door of Night [11]).
Schemes and Trouble
WAKING THE DEAD
Here, long ago, the Witch- king of Angmar stood as he called 
up the evil spirits and sent them to inhabit the barrows and 
graves of Tyrn Gorthad. From here, the Orc Snava called up 
the spirits that later brought disaster to the Dwarf assault 
on Rath Sereg ( page 88 ). And from here, again, Snava 
can wake the wights that slumber beneath the Hill. If Snava 
is able to reach the temple atop the Hill, he can stir up all 
the dead laid in the Barrow Corridor (location 12). There 
are hundreds of wights down there in the dark, far more 
than the Player- heroes could hope to defeat. If the wights 
are roused, then the only chance for the characters is to 
break the power of the Hill before they are overcome by 
the host of the dead.
HILL-  WIGHT
Hungry, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
1
HATE
6
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Ancient Sword 3 (5/16, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark . All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Hate Sunlight . The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Deathless . Spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound; spend 
1 Hate to reset to full Endurance when reduced to 0 
Endurance. Ineffective against Player- heroes wielding a 
Bane weapon (Undead).
Heartless . Unaffected by the Intimidate Foe combat 
task, unless a Magical success is obtained.
Thing of Terror . At the start of the first round of the 
battle all Player- heroes in sight of one or more creatures 
with this ability gain 3 Shadow points (Dread). Those 
who fail their Shadow test are daunted and cannot 
spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
Fell Presence . Spend 1 Hate when an opponent 
attempts a Combat Task to give that opponent a (−1d) 
penalty.
DEFEATING THE DARKNESS
How can the heroes overcome the Hill of Fear? 
Death is not a giant to be slain, nor a talisman to be 
broken. To break the magic of the Hill, they must 
find a way to overcome this fear. See Destroying 
the Hill of Fear , page 112 .
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 114 =====

CHAPTER 6
110
THE WORM- WIGHT
When the world was young and the Hill of Fear was first 
raised by the hand of the Enemy, a Dragon was sent forth 
from the dungeons of Angband to guard it. This worm came 
from one of the first broods of Dragons, a wingless serpent 
that slithered across the earth, poisoning it with its passage. 
Flames blazed in its belly. It grew and grew, wrapping itself 
around the Hill three times, and the heat of its body kept 
the slopes free of snow.
Centuries passed, then whole Ages, and still the worm 
maintained its vigil. Its master had commanded it to guard 
the Hill, and so it remained a sentry. It roused itself to devour 
the occasional treasure- hunter or would- be hero. At times, it 
slunk down to the Ice- bay and — melting a hole in the pack 
ice — swam in the cold waters to hunt seals and whales. Over 
time, the worm’s fires grew dim. Snow cloaked the Hill of 
Fear, and the worm’s bright scales turned grey and rotten. Its 
eyes no longer blazed, and it slept longer and longer until it 
died, silent and alone.
But there is a dark power in the Hill, and the worm kept 
faithful to its command even beyond death. The vile spirit 
that inhabited its living flesh now animated its rotting remains, 
and though it no longer had fire in its belly, its hatred of the 
living grew ever keener.
This thing, now, is the Worm- wight.
It has riddled the Hill with its tunnels, and can bur -
row anywhere in the landmark within a few heartbeats. If 
it senses intruders, the Worm- wight stalks them, waiting for 
the moment to strike. The Worm- wight prefers to wait until 
its prey are already trapped (by lesser wights, or by causing 
a small cave-  in) then burrows in to attack them when they 
have no way to flee. If the heroes get close to the heart of the 
Hill, then the worm crawls down the central well to defend 
its charge.
PERILS OF THE HILL
As the heroes travel through the hill, unbalance them with 
moments of horror and disorientation. Some suggested perils:
 ♦ The ground shifts beneath one of the Player- heroes, 
the frozen earth suddenly becoming as yielding as rot-
ten flesh. The hero slips and falls — dropping what -
ever item or weapon they’re carrying.
 ♦ Howling spirits emerge from the darkness and assail 
the Company. These immaterial spirits cannot injure 
the living — but draw the attention of any nearby foes, 
and make any rolls ill- favoured until driven away by fire 
or magic.
 ♦ The ceiling of the tunnel partially caves in, inflicting 
a Grievous Endurance loss on one of the heroes (The 
One Ring, page 134).
WORM-  WIGHT
Fierce, Vengeful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
10
ENDURANCE
120
MIGHT
3
HATE
10
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
5
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Bite 3 (6/20, Pierce), Tail 2 (10/12, 
Break Shield)
FELL ABILITIES:  Deathless . Spend 1 Hate to cancel a 
Wound; spend 1 Hate to reset to full Endurance when 
reduced to 0 Endurance. Ineffective against Player-  
heroes wielding a Bane weapon (Undead).
Hate Sunlight . The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Heartless . Unaffected by the Intimidate Foe combat 
task, unless a Magical success is obtained.
Horrible Strength . If the creature scores a Piercing 
Blow, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill- favoured.
Thing of Terror . At the start of the first round of the 
battle all Player- heroes in sight of one or more creatures 
with this ability gain 4 Shadow points (Dread). Those 
who fail their Shadow test are daunted and cannot 
spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
Weak Spot . Player- heroes can attempt a special 
combat task against the creature while in any stance. 
The acting player makes a LORE  or SCAN  roll as the main 
action for the round: on a success, the Worm- wight loses 
(1d)  on the next Protection roll, plus another (1d)  for 
each Success icon ( ) rolled.
 ♦ The hero with the heaviest burden of Shadow hears a 
voice from within the hill, promising that they’ll find 
whatever they most desire — wealth, power, ancient 
lore, safety — if only they betray their companions and 
protect the Hill.
 ♦ The heroes all feel the sudden presence of an Eye. It’s 
far away in the south, but it’s searching for them, prob-
ing the darkness — and they know instinctively that if 
they were atop the Hill, it would see them instantly. All 
heroes must make a Shadow (Dread) test; those who 
fail gain 2 points of Shadow and are frozen in terror 
until the Eye passes on (or an enemy finds them and 
attacks, or a companion rallies them with ENHEARTEN ).
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 115 =====

THE QUEST OF AMON GURUTHOS
111
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 116 =====

CHAPTER 6
112
DESTROYING THE HILL OF FEAR
To defeat the magic of the Hill of Fear, the Company must 
overcome the fear of death as embodied by the dark Gate. It’s 
up to the Player- heroes to conceive of a way to do this, and to 
the Lore master to judge it fitting or otherwise.
Some suggestions follow:
COLLECTIVE DEFIANCE: The Hill’s magic relies on division 
and fear; it conjures images of despair, and seeks to turn the 
heroes against one another by filling them with doubt and 
mistrust. Other fellowships of heroes failed and broke under 
the shadow of the Hill — but the Player- heroes are different! 
If they all hold together, supporting one another, they can 
drive away the darkness.
STRIKE IT WITH THE SWORD:  The sword Estelang was made 
for this purpose — does it have enough magic to shatter the 
spells of the Enemy, if wielded with valour?
BRING DOWN THE HILL:  The Hill of Fear is an unnatural 
place, a twisted aberration. That is not natural stonework back 
there. A cunning Dwarf could hew away the foundations and 
collapse the hill, choking the pit with the earth and rubble 
of the temple above.
WRESTLING THE WORM- WIGHT: The dead Dragon is the stron-
gest of the Barrow- wights that troubled the North — could 
hurling it into the pit that spawned it destroy the Gate?
THE AID OF A PATRON:  Perhaps it was the purpose of the 
heroes to open the way to the heart of the Hill, to trample a 
path for another to follow. When all seems lost, then Gandalf 
could arrive in the nick of time, or the voice of Tom Bomba-
dil might somehow be heard on the wind, singing up a fair 
tune that blows away the darkness.
PRAYER FOR DELIVERANCE: Gilthoniel, a Elbereth! Aiya elenion 
ancalima! Ultimately, the Shadow cannot be defeated by 
heroes, no matter how courageous they may be. All they can 
do is resist to the limits of their strength, and put their trust 
in the Valar. Maybe slaying the Worm- wight and holding out 
against the other wights will be rewarded by a single star — 
the light of Eärendil! — shining through the gloom…
HEROIC SELF- SACRIFICE: A Player- hero might willingly hurl 
themselves into the pit, accepting that it is the hero’s destiny 
to lay down their life for the benefit of others. That sacri -
fice ends the character’s tale — but also closes the Gate and 
destroys the power of the Hill.
Part 5: Homeward Bound
Yet things might have gone far otherwise and far worse… think about what might have been.  
Dragonfire and savage swords in Eriador, night in Rivendell.
Their quest done, the surviving heroes may return to their 
respective homelands to rest and heal, while news of their 
demise in battle is brought to the kinfolk of the fallen.
Have each Player- hero describe their reception when they 
return home — what do their respective peoples make of 
the tale? How are the heroes honoured — or do their deeds 
go unspoken?
What becomes of the sword Estelang? Does the Heir 
return it to the grave on the western isle?
And, most worrying of all — what of Sauron’s other plans? 
The Orc Snava was but one of the Enemy’s spies abroad in 
Eriador, and he arranged for the slaughter of the Dwarves 
at Flonar’s camp in order to safeguard his secret door into 
Moria. The loss of the Hill of Fear will not stop Sauron’s mal-
ice. His war on the Free Peoples of Middle- earth is inevitable, 
and brings death with it.
But for now, be of good cheer! There is but one way for 
a mortal to escape the clutches of Amon Guruthos, and it is 
not with any magic ring or ritual. The great tales shall live 
on forever, told and retold, and with their deeds in the quest, 
the heroes have earned their place in the story. Their names 
shall never die, not so long as tales are told by the fire in the 
Lone- lands of Eriador.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 117 =====

Index
A
Aglaen the Seer  29
Amon Guruthos  5, 41, 102–112
Ancestors  6–7
Aya of the Unwilling  97
B
Black Númenórean spies  31
Borlas  67
Breghel  50
D
Déor  69–70
Diarmoc the Traveller  12
Dvalin, Dwarf in Exile  7
E
Eagre  29–30
Egel  93–94
Elwing  38
Ernalda  47
Estelang  39
F
Falmir Fairbairns  27
Farrell the Elder  47
Farrell the Younger  47
Farweld  47
Fastitocalon  40
Floki  75
Flonar  76
G
Garth Tauron  64–68
Gwendaith, Long-dead  54
Gwilleth  68–69
H
Hamfast  50
Haunted Isle, The  33–39
Heroic Lineage  6–7
Hero’s Sword, The.  
See  Estelang
Hidden Valley, The  16–22
Hill of Fear, The.  
See  Amon Guruthos
Hill-wight  109
Hultmar Manyhanded  78, 86
I
Iron Talisman, The  71
Isle of the Mother, The.  
See  Haunted Isle, The
J
Jack of Bree  7
Jagat of the Lossoth  36, 93
Jari the Wanderer  10, 12
Jon-a-Leaping  59
K
Kathuphazgân, The  31
L
Lone-lands of Eriador, The  5
Lossoth  34
Lossoth Hunter  39
Lucinda Willow  45
M
Mourner, The  37
N
Nelly Longarms  21
O
Orothel  23, 60, 69, 71
Osmer the “Wizard”  52
Q
Queen Nimue  28
Queen’s Hall, The  28
R
Rath Sereg  84–89
Ring of Gurgolwen, The  101
Ruined Tower, The  49–54
S
Scylda Heather  18
Sennas Gaer  96–98, 103
Shell Amulet, The  71
Snava’s Blades  88
Snava’s Keys  102
Snava the Orc  88, 101
T
Tam  50
Tarandis, the Knight of Arnor  6
Troll-parasols  17
Troll-shawls  17
U
Unhoused Wraiths  38
V
Valandur  67
Vale of Gold, The  76–77
Valley of Morglynd, The.  
See  Hidden Valley, The
Vampire Bats  32
Vilia  83
W
Wart, The  19
Weathertop  13
Wood-wights  38
Worm-wight, The  104, 110–111
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 118 =====

Border Lands
Wild Lands
Dark Lands
Impassable Terrain
Perilous Area
1 hex = 20 miles
4
LANDMARKS
1. Bree
2. The Hidden Valley
3. Lond Daer
4. The Isle of the Mother
5. Farrell’s House/ 
The Watchtower
6. Tharbad
7. Deor’s Grave
8. The Hill of Gold
9. Rath Sereg
10. Camp of the Lossoth
 The Hill of Fear
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)


===== PAGE 119 =====

1
2
5
8
10
9
3
6
7
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)

===== PAGE 120 =====

TALES FROM THE LONE-LANDS
The War of the RingThe War of the Ring , , Middle-earthMiddle-earth , , The Lord of the RingsThe Lord of the Rings , , The One RingThe One Ring   
and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or and the characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or 
registered trademarks of Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC and are used registered trademarks of Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC and are used 
under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their respective licensees. 
© 2023 Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC & Sophisticated Games Ltd.© 2023 Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC & Sophisticated Games Ltd. 97 891897 65139
ISBN 978-91-89765-13-9
FLFTOR012
ales from the Lone-landsales from the Lone-lands  contains six adventures for  contains six adventures for 
The One RingThe One Ring™, the official tabletop roleplaying game ™, the official tabletop roleplaying game 
based on the works of J.R.R. Tolkien. All set in the based on the works of J.R.R. Tolkien. All set in the 
lone-lands of north-western Middle-earth around the lone-lands of north-western Middle-earth around the 
year 2965 of the Third Age, the adventures can be year 2965 of the Third Age, the adventures can be 
played individually, or as part of a larger tale. played individually, or as part of a larger tale. 
Ancient evils wake as the Dark Lord stretches forth his hand. Over Ancient evils wake as the Dark Lord stretches forth his hand. Over 
the course of these adventures, the heroes may thwart the spies and the course of these adventures, the heroes may thwart the spies and 
stratagems of the Enemy, explore long-lost wonders of the north, stratagems of the Enemy, explore long-lost wonders of the north, 
and travel far from hearth and home. Preserve the spark of hope, and travel far from hearth and home. Preserve the spark of hope, 
and one day these empty, wounded lands shall be healed! Fail, and and one day these empty, wounded lands shall be healed! Fail, and 
all will be destroyed…all will be destroyed…
Now they had gone on far into the Lone-lands,  Now they had gone on far into the Lone-lands,  
where there were no people left, no inns,  where there were no people left, no inns,  
and the roads grew steadily worse.  and the roads grew steadily worse.  
Not far ahead were dreary hills,  Not far ahead were dreary hills,  
rising higher and higher, dark with trees.  rising higher and higher, dark with trees.  
On some of them were old castles with an evil look, On some of them were old castles with an evil look, 
as if they had been built by wicked people.as if they had been built by wicked people.
Mike Lee (Order #40109280)