

===== PAGE 1 =====

MORIA
™
  
THROUGH THE DOORS OF DURIN
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 2 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 3 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 4 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 5 =====

Moria, The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Lord of the Rings and the characters, items, events  
and places therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC  
and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd. and Fria Ligan AB.  
© 2024 Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC & Sophisticated Games Ltd. All rights reserved.
First published in 2024 by Fria Ligan AB
Text and illustrations © 2024 Fria Ligan AB
ISBN
978-91-89765-47-4
PRINT
Standart Impressa UAB
LEAD WRITER
Gareth Hanrahan
SOLO PLAY
Shawn Tomkin & Matt Click
EDITORS
Francesco Nepitello, Michele Garbuggio,  
Lorenzo Perassi
COVER ART
Antonio De Luca
OTHER ART
Antonio De Luca, Federica Costantini,  
Michele Galavotti, Giuditta Betti,  
Andrea Tentori Montalto, Alvaro Tapia
GRAPHIC DESIGN
Christian Granath,  
Niklas Brandt,  
Dan Algstrand
LAYOUT
Dan Algstrand
MAPS
Francesco Mattioli
PROOFREADING
Brandon Bowling
LINE MANAGER
Francesco Nepitello 
PROJECT MANAGER
Tomas Härenstam,  
Martin Takaichi
BRAND MANAGER
Robert Hyde –  
Sophisticated Games
EVENT MANAGER
Anna Westerling
PR MANAGER
Boel Bermann
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 6 =====

CONTENTS
1
 
Introduction 5
A LIGHT IN THE DARKNESS 6
Overview 6
THE CITY AND THE MINES 7
A Tale of Years of the City 8
2
And at the Gates,  
the Trumpets Rang 11
MORIA IN YOUR GAME 12
CAMPAIGN FOCUS 13
Searching for Treasure 13
Searching for Mithril 14
The Perilous Path 14
Vengeance 14
Questing for Ring-lore 15
MORIA & THE WIDER WORLD 16
Dwarves 16
Durin’s Folk 16
Dwarves of Other Houses 19
Elves 22
Middle Men and Hobbits 22
Heirs to the Men of the West 24
A NAME OF ILL-OMEN 25
Rumours 25
RUNNING MORIA 27
Themes of Wonder 27
Themes of Sorrow and Fear 30
3
 
Journeys in the Dark 33
INTO THE LONG DARK 34
The Company Underground 34
Journey Sequence 36
Event Resolution 37
Seeking and Finding 38
DESCRIBING MORIA 38
DRUMS IN THE DEEP 39
Eye Awareness in Moria 39
Hunt Threshold 40
RANDOM CHAMBER GENERATOR 44
RANDOM ORC-BAND GENERATOR 49
4
 
Fell Foes 51
ORCS 52
Orcs of Moria 53
Orcs of Udûn 54
Orcs of Mordor 56
DWARVES 58
Slave Dwarves 58
Dwarven Haunts 59
THE BALROG OF MORIA 59
The Tale of the Balrog 59
Unanswered Questions 60
Alternate Banes 62
OTHER FOUL THINGS 63
Ash-wraiths 63
Cave Bats 64
Marrow-eaters 65
Stone Toads 66
Tappers 67
5
The Mansions  
of the Dwarves 69
THE DELVING OF THE DWARVES 70
Levels and Deeps, Halls and Gates 71
Wind and Water, Light and Food 71
Ways In and Out 71
Landmarks of Renown 72
The Dimrill Dale 73
THE DIMRILL STAIR 75
Background 75
Locations 76
Schemes and Trouble 77
THE MOUNDS OF AZANULBIZAR 79
Background 79
Locations 79
Schemes and Troubles 80
THE EAST-GATE OF MORIA 81
Background 81
Locations 82
Schemes and Trouble 84
Old Moria 86
THE FIRST HALL 86
Background 86
Locations 87
Schemes and Troubles 88
THE SECOND HALL  
AND DURIN’S BRIDGE 88
Background 88
Locations 89
Schemes and Troubles 90
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 7 =====

CONTENTS
THE LAST REDOUBT  
OF THE DWARVES 92
Background 93
Locations 94
Schemes and Troubles 95
The Dwarrowdelf 96
THE CAVES OF  
THRYM THISTLE BEARD 96
Background 96
Locations 97
Schemes and Troubles 100
THE KING’S HALL 100
Background 100
Locations 100
Schemes and Troubles 103
THE CHAMBER OF MAZARBUL 104
Background 104
Locations 104
Schemes and Troubles 106
THE VAULT OF URUKTHARBUN 106
Background 106
Locations 107
Schemes and Troubles 109
THE FORTRESS OF MALECH 110
Background 110
Locations 111
Schemes and Troubles 115
The Mountains of Moria 116
THE REDHORN GATE  
AND THE CITADEL OF BARAZINBAR 117
Background 117
Locations 117
Schemes and Troubles 121
THE MOUNTAIN GALLERIES 122
Background 122
Locations 123
Schemes and Troubles 127
TARLOCH’S HALL 128
Background 128
Locations 128
Schemes and Troubles 131
The Road 132
THE HALLS OF THE ROADWARDENS 133
Background 133
Locations 133
Schemes and Trouble 134
THE GREAT WEST CAVE 135
Background 135
Locations 135
Schemes and Troubles 137
West Moria 138
THE IMPERISHABLE HALL 138
Background 138
Locations 139
Schemes and Troubles 141
THE LOST CITADEL  
OF THE RING-SMITHS 141
Background 141
Locations 143
Schemes and Troubles 145
THE DOORS OF DURIN 147
Background 147
Locations 147
Schemes and Troubles 149
The Deeps 150
THE ARMOURIES  
OF THE THIRD DEEP 151
Background 151
Locations 151
Schemes and Troubles 154
GOBLIN VILLAGE 154
Background 154
Locations 154
Schemes and Troubles 157
THE LEDGE OF WOE 158
Background 158
Locations 158
Schemes and Troubles 160
THE UDÛN-TEMPLE 161
Background 161
Locations 162
Schemes and Troubles 164
The Mines 166
THE DEN OF FORGOTTEN STARS 166
Background 166
Locations 166
Schemes and Troubles 170
THE BALROG’S THRONE 170
Background 170
Locations 171
Schemes and Troubles 172
FOUNDATIONS OF STONE 173
Background 173
Locations 173
Schemes and Troubles 175
A
 
Appendix 176
BALIN’S EXPEDITION 176
Playing the Expedition 176
I TOO ONCE PASSED  
THE DIMRILL GATE 180
2849 — The Search For Thráin 180
2980 — Aragorn’s Journey 181
ON MITHRIL 183
Species of Mithril 183
Mithril Enchanted Rewards 184
MORIA MAGICAL TREASURE INDEX 185
DWARVES OF NOGROD  
AND BELEGOST 186
Characteristics 186
Attributes 187
Virtues of the Dwarves  
of Nogrod and Belegost 188
S
 
Solo Play in Moria 189
RECLAIMING KHAZAD- DÛM 189
Joining Balin’s Quest 189
How it Works 189
YOUR SOLO ADVENTURER 190
Crafting Your Player- hero 190
Adventuring Among  
Balin’s Expedition 191
YOUR BAND 191
Readiness 191
Dispositions 192
Personalisation 193
Conditions 194
Improving the Band 194
Roleplaying Your Allies 194
SHARED CALLINGS 195
GATHERING ALLIES 196
Your Starting Band 196
Gifts 196
Quirks 197
Names 198
PLANNING A MISSION 199
Set the Mission Objective 199
Choose Your Allies 200
Set the Band’s Composition 200
Set the Eye Awareness Score 200
Set the Hunt Threshold 201
Begin the Mission 201
UNDERTAKING MISSIONS 202
Exploring Moria 202
Making Rolls 202
Endurance Tests and Injuries 203
Fatigue Tests and Conditions 204
Adjusting Burden 205
Becoming Weary 205
Managing Hope 205
Suffering Shadow 205
Managing Eye Awareness 206
Reclaiming Treasures 206
SOLO TOOLS 207
The Telling Table 207
The Lore Table 208
Fortune and Ill- fortune Tables 210
Special Success Table 211
Milestones 211
BATTLES 212
Aspects of a Battle 212
Encountering Fearsome Foes 213
Beginning the Battle 214
Clash Sequence 215
Duels 217
Other Actions in Battle 218
The End of the Battle 218
COUNCILS 219
JOURNEYS 219
Marching Tests 220
Solo Journey Events 220
Returning to Your Safe Haven 223
FELLOW SHIP PHASE 223
Fellow ship Interruptions 224
Improving Allies 224
New Undertaking:  
Reclaim a Safe Haven 224
New Undertaking: Recruit Allies 225
Spiritual Recovery  
for the Solo Player 225
THE END OF ALL THINGS 225
Balin’s Fall 225
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 8 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 9 =====

CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION
‘But I would not lead you into Moria  
if there were no hope of coming out again…’
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 10 =====

CHAPTER 1
6
n days of old, Men and Elves and Dwarves built great cities 
and fortresses against the Shadow. Their names passed 
into legend — Nargothrond and Gondolin, Nogrod 
and Belegost, vanished Númenor — while their ruins 
lie drowned beneath the western sea. Of all those mighty works, 
only one survived to the Third Age. Khazad- dûm! Khazad- dûm! 
Next to it, the cities of Gondor are but newly built! Even the 
oldest trees in Fangorn do not recall a time when the Dwarves 
did not toil under the mountain. Ancient are the halls of Durin.
For it was Durin, called Deathless, who began the 
Dwarrow delf, and Durin’s heirs who dug deep and carved a 
city under stone. Their work began thousands of years ago, 
and though other hands and minds joined in the task, it 
is Durin’s kin, the Longbeard Dwarves, who have the chief 
claim to Khazad- dûm. To them, Moria is more than a bulwark 
against a hostile world, more than a source of wealth, more 
than a city — it is home, and they will never, ever forget it.
But they cannot go there. They cannot return.
For though Khazad- dûm was the eldest and greatest of 
the fortresses of Elves or Men or Dwarves in Middle- earth, it 
was not the eldest or greatest fortress in the land — for in the 
north, the Enemy had raised yet taller walls, and built night-
mare halls greater than the Dwarves could dream. The castle 
of Angband was mightier yet, and when that fortress fell, hor-
rors of the Enemy fled south to escape the wrath of the Valar.
They hid beneath the roots of the mountains.
And, many centuries later, when the Dwarves dug too 
deep, they woke the slumbering horrors.
They woke Durin’s Bane.
And the city fell.
The Dwarves fled, and ever since have wandered the 
world, dreaming of the day when they could return to the 
halls of their forefathers.
For what is broken can be remade.
A Light in the Darkness
But most of the Orcs of the Misty Mountains were scattered or destroyed in the Battle of Five Armies. 
The Eagles report that Orcs are gathering again from afar; but there is a hope that Moria is still free.
For a thousand years, a shadow has lain on Moria. Durin’s 
Bane forced the Dwarves to flee, and the ruins of the holy 
city of Khazad- dûm were occupied and defiled by Orcs and 
Goblins. The Dwarves tried several times to retake their city, 
most notably in the War of the Dwarves and Orcs following 
the murder of King Thrór, father of Thráin, by the Orc- chief 
Azog, but they met only with bitter failure.
Then came the Battle of Five Armies. The host of Goblins 
that issued forth from the Misty Mountains included many from 
Moria. As everyone knows, that battle ended in a hard- won 
victory for the Free Peoples, and a great many Orcs were slain 
including Bolg the son of Azog. Suddenly, the noisome holes 
and Orc- pits of the Misty Mountains were nearly emptied of foes. 
Mount Gundabad was silent. Goblin- town was diminished (and 
the Great Goblin slain). It was safe to cross the High Pass again.
What, they whisper from the Iron Hills to the Blue Moun-
tains, of Moria? How many of Moria’s usurpers had perished 
at Erebor? Might it be possible, the Dwarves mutter, to retake 
Khazad- dûm, or at least reclaim some of its lost treasures?
Dáin Ironfoot, the King under the Mountain, has set his 
face against retaking the city. He alone once looked beyond 
the shadow of the gate, and he alone sensed something of 
Durin’s Bane. There is work enough to be done in Erebor, 
declares Dáin, so he forbids his followers to attempt to reclaim 
Khazad- dûm for now.
As chieftain of the Longbeards and heir to Durin, Dáin’s 
claim on Khazad- dûm is the strongest — but if he is unwill -
ing to take this chance to strike while the Orcs are scattered, 
then surely anyone with courage and sharp axes may do so! 
Dáin’s words bind his kin, but not other Dwarves and other 
treasure- hunters.
This, then, is the state of Moria in the Year 2965 of the Third 
Age, as far as any Dwarf or Man knows. It is a time when the 
Orcs are weakened, and when a band of heroes — or burglars 
— could enter the city and perhaps hope to come out again.
But what neither Man nor Dwarf knows is what waits 
beyond the Shadow of the Gate.
Overview
Moria is staggeringly ancient and complex; the work of mak-
ing and remaking the Dwarrow delf is never done. Therefore, 
this guide focusses on one section of the city’s history, the 
years around 2965 when the Free Peoples risked entering the 
dreaded mines, on expeditions seeking treasure, vengeance, or 
the lost secrets of the Dwarves. The last of these expeditions, of 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 11 =====

INTRODUCTION
7
course, was the attempt by Balin son of Fundin to reclaim the 
city — that expedition began in 2989 and is outside the time 
period covered by this guide (in the spirit of The Lord of the 
Rings, it is covered in an appendix — beginning on page 176).
Even before the Battle of Five Armies, a few brave trav -
ellers did risk entering Moria. The Wizard Tharkûn, called 
Gandalf or Mithrandir in other lands, went searching for 
Thráin son of Thrór in the darkness of the mines; it is also 
known that Aragorn entered Moria in his errantries. Others 
must have taken the Moria- road in times of need.
The assumption of this guide, then, is that the Player-  
heroes are either trying to travel through Moria, or are part 
of a small expedition into the ruins. The prospect of retaking 
the city or fully exploring the mines is beyond the scope of 
even a full campaign.
 ♦ This Introduction describes the history and shape of the 
place now called Moria.
 ♦ And At The Gates, The Trumpets Rang discusses several 
groups interested in Moria in the present era. These 
groups might be Patrons or rivals to the Player- heroes.
 ♦ Journeys in the Dark contains a set of Journey rules 
adjusted for underground exploration, as well as 
Moria-specific Eye Awareness rules.
 ♦ Fell Foes lists the Orcs and other enemies that may be 
found in the city — and rules for risking an encounter 
with Durin’s Bane.
 ♦ The Mansions of the Dwarves is the largest part of the 
book, describing Landmarks and hazards in the vari-
ous regions of Moria.
 ♦ The Appendix describes the largest expedition to 
brave Moria, Balin’s expedition from 2989 to 2994, 
and magical treasures that might be found in Moria. 
It also presents a new playable culture of Dwarves, 
the Dwarves of Nogrod and Belegost.
The City and the Mines
“There must have been a mighty crowd of Dwarves here at one time,” said Sam,  
“and every one of them busier than badgers for five hundred years to make all this, and most in 
hard rock too! What did they do it all for? They didn’t live in these darksome holes surely?”
“These are not holes,” said Gimli. “This is the great realm and city of the Dwarrow delf.”
‘Moria’ means ‘Black Pit’ in Elvish, and this name passed into 
common usage so long ago that few recall its origin, or that it 
was never intended to refer to the whole complex. The Dwarves, 
always being precise about such terms (and quick to take 
offence when they are misapplied) draw a distinction between 
the Mines of Moria and the Dwarrow delf or City of the Dwarves.
The tale began in the First Age, when — as the song relates 
— Durin woke and walked alone. Durin was the eldest of the 
Dwarves. It was he who discovered the sacred lake of Mir -
rormere, and he who first began to dig and build beneath the 
mountains. Over many centuries, and with much labour of the 
Dwarves, Durin’s first hall grew into a great city. This city, the 
Dwarrow delf, lies mostly beneath Mount Silvertine (Celebdil, in 
the Elven tongue), on the eastern side of the Misty Mountains.
Tunnels and mines extend out in many directions from 
this city, reaching so far west that the Dwarves built a road 
under the mountains, connecting it to a gate in the west near 
the Elven kingdom of Hollin.
Originally, the Elves of Hollin used ‘Moria’ to refer to 
the mines and the long road from the West- gate to the city of 
the Dwarrow delf; after its blazing lamps were put out and the 
city plunged into darkness, the word was used for the whole 
city. Thus, up until the Year 1980, ‘Moria’ had a much more 
limited meaning, and could not be applied to the city proper. 
After the uncovering of Durin’s Bane, all was shadow and fire.
From East- gate to West- gate, the realm of Moria spans 
some forty miles. The mines run north from the city about 
twenty miles, and south for another ten or so, but the caves 
and shafts twist and writhe, so it is hard to reckon the full 
extent of the city.
The Dwarrow delf extends vertically as well as horizontally. 
The Dwarves took the level of the East- gate as the reference 
point for reckoning heights within the mountain, and called 
this the Level of the Gates or the First Level. The floors above 
that line are referred to as ‘levels’ — thus, one floor above 
that baseline is the Second Level, two the Third Level and so 
on. Anything below that level is considered part of the Deeps 
— one below is First Deep, two below is Second Deep and so 
forth. The city extended to the Twelfth Level and the Ninth 
Deep, but tunnels and outposts went far higher and deeper.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 12 =====

CHAPTER 1
8
A Tale of Years of the City
THE FIRST AGE:
 ♦ Khazad- dûm is founded by Durin I, Father of the Long-
beards. It endures and prospers, even as the world 
beyond its doors is wracked by war and upheaval.
THE SECOND AGE:
 ♦ CIRCA 1:  A Balrog of Morgoth flees the wrath of the 
Valar, and hides under the mountains.
 ♦ C. 20–60:  The Dwarves ally with Men of the Anduin Valley. 
This friendship endures for many generations of Men, 
and the Dwarves build great cities and forge weapons 
for their allies.
 ♦ 40:  Dwarves fleeing the destruction of the western cities 
take refuge in Khazad- dûm. These Dwarves are not of 
the line of the Longbeards, and there is some grum -
bling and strife between the kindreds. Still, the city’s 
prosperity grows.
 ♦ C. 750:  High Elves settle in Eregion. They build the city 
of Ost- in- Edhil and establish the land of Hollin. They 
trade with the Dwarves of Khazad- dûm for Mithril, and 
the two peoples become close friends. Together, these 
Elven- smiths and the Dwarf-  lords become the greatest 
craftsmen to ever dwell east of the Sea.
 ♦ C. 1000:  The citadel of West Moria is established.
 ♦ C. 1500:  The Elves study ring-  lore with the aid of a dis -
guised Sauron, and reach the height of their achieve -
ments. They forge the Rings of Power.
 ♦ C. 1600:  Sauron makes the One Ring, and war begins. 
Dwarven tradition insists that Celebrimbor gave Durin 
the first of the Seven before the One was forged; other 
tales hold that Sauron captured the Seven along with 
the Nine, and gave them to the Dwarves in an attempt 
to bewitch them.
 ♦ 1697:  Eregion is destroyed; the doors of Khazad- dûm 
are closed and the city besieged for a time. The Dwarves 
block up most of the entrances to their realm. The con-
federation with the Men of the Anduin is broken, and 
the kingdoms of Men are destroyed and scattered.
 ♦ 1701:  Sauron is defeated by the Númenóreans and driven 
from Eriador. He continues to control the East, beyond 
the Great River, while Númenor commands the coasts. 
Caught between two great powers, the Dwarves ready 
their defences. Moria is fortified.
 ♦ 2251:  The Nine Ringwraiths appear for the first time.
 ♦ 3262–3319:  Sauron is captured by the Númenóreans. He 
seduces their leaders, and Númenor is destroyed.
 ♦ 3320:  The realms of Númenor- in- exile, Arnor and Gon-
dor, are founded.
 ♦ 3441:  The Last Alliance of Men and Elves defeats Sauron. 
A small army of Dwarves led by Durin IV joins the fray. 
Isildur claims the One Ring.
THE THIRD AGE:
 ♦ 861:  The North- Kingdom of Arnor is divided into three 
lesser realms.
 ♦ C. 1300:  Orcs attack the Dwarves in the Misty Mountains. 
The realm of Angmar arises.
 ♦ 1409:  Angmar invades the North Kingdom.
 ♦ 1636:  Plague ravages the land, and many Dwarves perish 
in the cramped confines of the mountain.
 ♦ 1975:  An army of Men of Arnor, Gondor and Elves defeat 
the Witch- king at Fornost.
 ♦ 1980:  The Balrog awakens and slays Durin VI.
 ♦ 1981:  Náin I, son of Durin VI is slain. The Dwarves flee. 
Moria is lost. King Thráin I escapes, bearing Durin’s Ring.
 ♦ 1999:  Thráin I founds the Kingdom under the Mountain.
 ♦ C. 2480:  The Orcs expand their fortresses in the Misty 
Mountains, under the direction of Sauron. They inhabit 
Moria and defile its halls. Moria becomes known as a 
place of uttermost dread and terror.
 ♦ C. 2700:  Azog the Orc- chieftain claims Moria.
 ♦ 2770:  Smaug the Dreadful conquers the Kingdom under 
the Mountain. Thrór flees, carrying with him Durin’s 
Ring.
 ♦ 2790:  Thrór returns to Moria and enters it. He is slain on 
the doorstep by Azog the Orc, and branded as a beggar.
 ♦ 2793:  Thráin II son of Thrór gathers all the Dwarves 
and begins a great war upon the Orcs. They sack many 
Orc- lairs.
 ♦ 2799:  The battle of Azanulbizar (Nanduhirion in the 
Elvish tongue) in Dimrill Dale. The Dwarves are victo -
rious, but at great cost — fully half their number are 
slain, including Náin III of the Iron Hills. His son Dáin 
slays Azog. Thráin II argues they should enter Moria, 
but Dáin and the other Dwarves gainsay him — they 
have lost too many to dare the deed, and a shadow still 
lies upon its halls.
 ♦ C. 2810:  Thráin II and his followers, including his son 
Thorin and his lieutenant Balin, wander Middle- earth 
and eventually settle in the Blue Mountains.
 ♦ 2841:  Thráin II and some of his followers, including Balin, 
attempt to return to Erebor. They are waylaid in Mirk -
wood, and Thráin is captured by servants of the Necro -
mancer. He is imprisoned in Dol Guldur, and Durin’s 
Ring is taken from him.
 ♦ 2848:  Gandalf enters Moria in search of Thráin; he passes 
from the East all the way to the West- gate, but finds no 
sign of the Dwarf.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 13 =====

INTRODUCTION
9
 ♦ 2850:  Gandalf finds Thráin in Dol Guldur.
 ♦ 2941:  Thorin and company return to Erebor; the 
Dragon is slain and the Kingdom restored. Many Orcs 
are slain in the Battle of Five Armies, including Bolg 
son of Azog. The White Council attack Dol Guldur and 
drive out the Necromancer; there is no sign of Durin’s 
Ring. Dáin Ironfoot becomes King under the Moun -
tain as Dáin II.
 ♦ 2949:  Bilbo receives Gandalf and Balin at Bag End.
 ♦ 2965:  After the deaths of so many Goblins at Erebor, some 
heroes risk entering Moria once again. The Present Day, 
for purposes of this guide.
 ♦ 2980:  Aragorn son of Arathorn returns from his errant -
ries in Gondor and Rohan, and dwells for a time in the 
forest of Lórien. Afterwards, he enters Moria by the 
East- gate.
 ♦ 2989:  Balin leads an expedition to reclaim Moria. After a 
few messages reporting good news, no word ever comes 
back to Erebor.
 ♦ 2994:  Recorded Death of Balin in the Book of Mazarbul.
 ♦ 3018:  The creature Gollum enters Moria to hide from 
the Elves and the forces of Sauron.
 ♦ 3019:  The Fellowship of the Ring passes through Moria. 
Gandalf the Grey destroys Durin’s Bridge and slays the 
Balrog.
This, then, is the tally of the years of Moria — for more than 
six thousand years, it was the mansion of Durin’s folk. It was 
abandoned a thousand years ago, and has been the abode 
of Orcs for almost as long. In the Fourth Age, it may be that 
the Dwarves at last reclaim their mansion, likely under the 
reign of Durin VII, last of his name.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 14 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 15 =====

CHAPTER 2
AND AT THE GATES,  
THE TRUMPETS RANG
‘It is now many years,’ said Glóin, ‘that a shadow of disquiet fell upon 
our people. Whence it came we did not at first perceive. Words began to 
be whispered in secret; it was said we were hemmed in a narrow place, 
and that greater wealth and splendour would be found in a wider world.’
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 16 =====

CHAPTER 2
12
oria. The name is heavy as iron, and dark as 
uttermost night. It is known to all who dwell 
in Middle- earth as a place of dread and terror. 
Why, then, would anyone dare enter such a 
place? Who goes down into the Black Pit? Even if the peril 
of the Orcs is diminished after the Battle of Five Armies, the 
ruins are immeasurably dangerous.
Even when observed in game terms, Moria is not a 
‘classical’ dungeon, of the sort found in many tabletop 
roleplaying games. It is not a series of rooms linked by 
neat corridors, each room containing a suitably balanced 
group of wacky monsters or some over- the- top puzzle. There 
certainly are monsters and riddles down in the dark, but 
more than anything else, Moria is an empty ruin, an end -
less desolation.
So, why shall your Player- heroes cross the threshold of 
doomed Khazad- dûm?
Moria in Your Game
‘I too once passed the Dimrill Gate,’ said Aragorn quietly, ‘but though I also came out 
again, the memory is very evil. I do not wish to enter Moria a second time.’
A key question: is this to be a quick excursion into Moria, or 
a series of expeditions?
A single adventure in Moria emphasises the horror and 
danger of the dark underground domain, plunging the 
Player- heroes into a labyrinth of unlikely perils, and makes 
the experience so harrowing that they swear never to return.
A longer expedition (like Balin’s attempt to reclaim the 
realm) needs to take a slower, more measured approach, and 
pay more attention to the physical geography and factions 
within the city. One adventure might involve discovering a long- 
lost secret entrance into Moria, or forcing a route through the 
ruins to a particular gate; the next adventure builds on that 
success, pushing deeper and deeper into the ruins.
A second important question: are the Player- heroes going 
into Moria at the behest of a Patron, or is this their own 
scheme?
A Patron lets the Lore master assign objectives to the Com-
pany, which is a very useful way of structuring expeditions into 
Moria — instead of wandering about in the darkness at random. 
Many sample Patrons are presented in this chapter, and unused 
Patrons can become rivals or encounters along the way. On 
the other hand, if a particular Player- hero strongly desires to 
recover some specific treasure or relic from Khazad- dûm, that’s 
wonderful; player enthusiasm is the best driver of adventure.
A third question: what is the composition of the Company? 
As a rule of thumb: the more Dwarves in your party, the more 
often you will return to Moria! Dwarves have a strong interest 
in reclaiming their ancient halls, but heroes of other back -
grounds have fewer reasons to enter. If you intend to run a 
campaign centred around Moria, then encourage the players to 
have lots of Dwarves in the Company. (Not necessarily Dwarves 
of Durin’s Folk; Dwarves of other clans also work perfectly.)
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 17 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
13
Campaign Focus
‘The world must change and some other power than ours  
must come before Durin’s Folk walk again in Moria.’
The Player- heroes are unlikely to be the ones who defeat 
Durin’s Bane — but that should not be their quest. They 
should enter Moria with some other purpose in mind, either 
of their own initiative or directed by a Patron.
The Company’s goals will no doubt evolve over time; they 
might be drawn to Moria by the lure of gold, get into a pro -
longed conflict with the Orc- tribes, ally with a Patron for aid, 
and then pursue the Patron’s goals for a while. The ruin is 
large enough for many sorts of adventure.
Searching for Treasure
Gandalf once said that the Orcs have plundered Moria, leaving 
nothing of worth in the upper halls. He may be right, but the 
common perception of Moria in the tales of Men is that the 
underground complex is full of treasure. The wealth of the 
Dwarves is fabled across the world, although accounts confuse 
the golden hoard of the Lonely Mountain for the treasures 
of Moria. Adventurers motivated by treasure- hunting could 
certainly risk the darkness of Khazad- dûm, either on their own 
behalf or for a Patron like a Dwarf seeking some heirloom.
Searching for a specific treasure, or a treasury like the 
Vault of Uruktharbun (see page 106), works better for a long 
campaign than just hunting for loot — but do not underesti -
mate the primal appeal of looking for pale, enchanted gold!
SUGGESTED PATRONS:  Fróra, Daza, Mjolin
LEGENDS OF TREASURE
As Gandalf said, the upper halls have been plundered by Orcs, 
so the Player- heroes cannot just wander in and start grabbing 
chests of gold. Give them a goal by seeding rumours and leg-
ends of lost treasures — of family vaults sealed with secret 
keys, of the fabled treasuries of the deeps, of specific relics 
and jewels that might still be found. Balin, for example, went 
looking for Durin’s Axe and Durin’s Helm, and knew about 
the Armouries of the Third Deep.
STEALING FROM THE ORCS
Of course, if the Orcs have plundered the upper halls, then 
it is clear where the treasure is — the Orcs have it! Most of 
Moria’s gold and Mithril was sent as tribute to Gundabad and 
Mordor, or lost over the years, but there is still much wealth 
in terms of gold and gems to be found in the various Orc 
strongholds of Moria — guarded by hosts of Orcs!
LORE OF MORIA
Much was lost in the fall of Khazad- dûm. Not just physi -
cal records and annals, but also much secret knowledge 
perished along with its keepers when Durin’s Bane arose. 
Even things that were once relatively common knowl -
edge, like the location and word of opening of the Hol -
lin Gate, have been lost over the centuries. At the same 
time, the Dwarves salvaged a great deal when they fled, 
and they preserved the lore of their ancestors with great 
determination, handing secrets down from one Dwarf 
to the next. Much is remembered about Moria in the 
halls of Erebor or the Blue Mountains, but the lore is 
fragmented, like a piece of fine stonework riven with 
deep cracks that must be filled, and missing pieces that 
must be found or remade.
Player- heroes might find lore about locations in 
Moria:
 ♦ From lore- masters and Patrons
 ♦ From family secrets jealously held by certain 
Dwarven lineages
 ♦ Through Fellowship Undertakings in Dwarven 
strongholds
 ♦ From records or inscriptions in the ruin itself
 ♦ In dreams or from ghostly apparitions
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 18 =====

CHAPTER 2
14
RIVAL THIEVES
Player- heroes emerging from Moria laden down with looted 
gold have just started their adventure. Thieves from Tharbad 
(see page 22) or rival treasure- hunters will seek to rob them 
of their ill- gotten gains at the first opportunity. After all, it is 
a lot easier to take from exhausted and battered adventurers 
than it is to brave the darkness of Moria.
Furthermore, any treasure in Moria belongs to the 
Dwarves, and they do not take kindly to thieves. The Com -
pany can get away with a few coins or gemstones, but if they 
come out with Mithril or a jewel or relic of Dwarven make, 
then they will be pursued to the ends of the earth by venge -
ful Dwarves. Since ancient times, the Dwarves have feuded 
with those who kept their treasure from them, and they are 
miserly when it comes to rewarding burglars. A wise thief takes 
a leaf from Bilbo’s book, and gets the terms of recompense 
in writing in advance…
Searching for Mithril
Moria- silver is found nowhere else in Middle- earth, and is pre-
cious beyond price. The metal is magical indeed, and Elves 
and Dwarves wrought many of their greatest wonders from 
it. Since the fall of Moria, no more Mithril has been mined, 
except by the Orcs. The Dwarves left behind storehouses full 
of ingots, and the mines were not yet exhausted and it might 
still be possible to find Mithril ore in the Deeps.
To find Moria- silver, the Company must delve into the 
Deeps, into the mines themselves, to recover what remains. 
Alternatively, their quest might be to track down Orcs who 
have secured a supply of Mithril, and slay them before they 
make some mischief with the metal — the forges of Isengard 
and Gorgoroth are hungry for Mithril, too.
SUGGESTED PATRONS:  Fróra, Nál, Saruman
FINDING MITHRIL
Mithril is found only deep within Moria. Actually mining 
Mithril is a slow and hazardous process; instead the Player-  
heroes should set their sights on either finding an old Dwar-
ven stockpile of Mithril ingots in a treasury, or stealing Mithril 
mined by the Orcs.
 ♦ Mithril stockpiles exist in The Fortress of Malech (see 
page 110), on Nan and Gilim (see page 135), in the 
Den of Forgotten Stars (see page 166) and the Goblin 
Village (see page 154).
Mithril might also be found in any hoard in Moria as the 
main material of a Precious Object.
The Perilous Path
Circumstances might force a Company of travellers to take 
the dark road under the mountains. If snowstorms block the 
passes, the Company could choose to take the Moria- road to 
cross between Eriador and Rhovanion. Equally, if they must 
hide from the sight of powerful enemies, they could vanish 
into the darkness.
Obviously, taking the Moria- road is very much a last resort; 
only a fool would take such a route if they had any other 
choice. A Lore master could arrange events to push their Com-
pany into Khazad- dûm, but it’s better to just pile woes and 
threats upon the Company until the players decide that their 
best option is indeed this terrible path.
A one- shot journey through Moria plays as a gauntlet 
of monsters and perils; the Company must find their way 
through the labyrinth as quickly as they can, exploring to 
find the correct route that leads on to the next region. The 
longer they delay, the greater the risk that the Orcs will 
come upon them and bring their journey to a premature 
and bloody end.
Vengeance
The upper levels have been picked clean of treasure; Mithril 
is lost in the flooded mines, and the Moria- road is a death-  
trap. Vengeance, though — there is vengeance aplenty to 
be found here. If the Company have a vendetta against a 
particular Orc- chief, then they may be compelled to enter 
this dreadful fortress to slay their quarry. It was vengeance 
against Azog that brought the armies of the Dwarves to the 
Dimrill Dale.
Possible targets for vengeance:
JEALOUS EYES
No Mithril has come out of Moria in a thousand years, 
making the existing works of the Dwarves irreplace-
able and priceless — Bilbo’s coat of Mithril- rings was 
valuable not merely because of its craftsmanship, 
but because it represented in itself a sizeable per -
centage of all the Mithril in the hands of the Free 
Folk! If more Mithril suddenly appears, it will draw 
the attention of the Dwarves — as well as other pow-
ers. Mithril is a potent substance, of value to Elven-  
smiths and Wizards and would- be ring- makers…
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 19 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
15
MORIA ORC-CHIEFS
ROLL TARGET
1 Malech One- eye, Chieftain of the Moria- orcs,  
see page 114
2 Thu the Firespeaker , Servant of the Balrog,  
see page 163
3 Yagul the Snatcher , Infamous Slaver, see page 112
4 Hagrot the Sneak , the master of the Twenty- first Hall,  
see page 105
5 Granny Goblin , Underworld Matriarch,  
see page 155
6 The Mauler of the Armouries , see page 152
A truly cruel Lore master could suggest Gorgol son of Bolg 
(see page 54) as the target; Gorgol is unassailable in Mount 
Gundabad, but could be lured to Moria if Malech’s reign 
collapsed.
SUGGESTED PATRONS:  None — give the Player- heroes a 
reason to hate that villain, instead of having them exact ven-
geance on behalf of another.
FINDING THE FOE:  The first step in any mission of ven -
geance is finding the enemy. While each target has a par -
ticular haunt in Moria, they may not be at home when the 
Player- heroes come calling. Spying on the target — or ally -
ing with another adversary — might be needed to locate 
the hated quarry.
SLAYING THE FOE:  How do the Player- heroes slay their 
enemy? Murder in the dark, or a pitched battle against the 
target’s minions? Or do they engineer events to make their 
revenge easier — say, by undermining Malech’s rule, or free-
ing Yagul’s captives?
FLEEING MORIA:  Killing the Great Goblin led to the Battle 
of Five Armies. Slaying King Thrór sparked the War of the 
Dwarves and Orcs. What have the Company’s deeds unleashed 
upon Middle- earth?
Questing for Ring-lore
The Dwarves of Moria preserved fragments of the lore of 
the Ring- smiths of Eregion, and for long years afterwards 
toiled in secret, trying to make their own magic rings. With 
great effort, they were able to create some lesser rings, but 
never succeeded in making a Ring of Power. Still, the lore 
they hid is of incalculable value to those who still understand 
how to use it…
Such Ring- lore might be hidden in the Lost Citadel of 
the Ring- smiths (see page 141), or in the Chambers of Narvi 
(see page 140).
SUGGESTED PATRONS:  Nál, Saruman
FINDING THE LOST CITADEL:  The Lost Citadel of the Ring- 
smiths is one of the best- kept secrets of Moria. There are few 
records of the place, and no living soul knows where to find 
it. The Player- heroes must search all of West Moria to even 
have a chance of discovering the hidden door.
OPENING THE DOOR:  The magic door that guards the 
secrets of the Rings can itself only be opened with a magic 
ring. There are several lesser rings to be found in the depths, 
or the heroes might find a ring in some other treasure- hoard.
RETURNING WITH THE SECRET:  Few in Middle- earth know 
anything of Ring- lore any more — the Elven- smiths of Ere -
gion are gone, and so too are the Dwarven masters. The world 
shall not know the likes of Celebrimbor or Narvi again. Even 
among the Wise, only Saruman has the craft and cunning 
to successfully make a new Ring. That said, there are many 
who are not accounted among the Wise who covet Rings, 
and who would foolishly attempt to use the secrets of Ring- 
lore for their own ends, or trade those secrets to the Lord of 
the Rings who dwells in the land of Mordor. Anyone leaving 
Moria with the records of the Ring- smiths will find little safety 
under the open sky.
PATRONS… AND RIVALS
One Company’s Patron might be another Compa -
ny’s mortal foe. You can turn any of the Patrons in 
this chapter into recurring foes who seek to stymie 
or block the Player- heroes’ efforts in Moria. Fróra 
might be the best friend of a group of adventur -
ers who explore Moria on her behalf, but strike 
down a band of thieves who serve a rival with 
furious vengeance.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 20 =====

CHAPTER 2
16
Moria & the Wider World
Only Gimli lifted up his head; a smouldering fire was in his eyes. On all the others a dread 
fell at the mention of that name. Even to the hobbits it was a legend of vague fear.
The ancient city of Khazad- dûm is gone; only the Black Pit 
remains. No- one save Orcs and Goblins has lived here for 
centuries — so what is the place of Moria in the context of 
Middle- earth at the end of the Third Age, and who might 
walk through its doors now?
Dwarves
First and foremost, we must speak of Durin’s Folk. Khazad-  
dûm was their mansion and their home, the hall of Durin of 
old and the foundation of their fabulous wealth. They remem-
ber Moria as it was in its days of glory, when the halls blazed 
with light, and they pass on these memories from one gener-
ation to the next, immortalising them in song and artistry. As 
Gimli said, ‘[that] is the land where our fathers worked of old, and 
we have wrought the image of those mountains into many works of 
metal and of stone, and into many songs and tales.’
Now, the Dwarves are a hardy folk, able to endure many 
sorrows. Age upon age, they build and make splendid the 
world, and age upon age, the forces of darkness and the mal-
ice of foes tear down their works. Their halls in the West were 
drowned; their halls in the mountains, like Erebor, taken by 
Dragons. These losses are on some level to be expected — this 
is Arda Marred, after all, and the Dwarves have fought against 
greedy Dragons and Orcs since the Elder Days. But the loss of 
Moria was singularly sudden and unexpected — the kingdom 
seemed secure and prosperous, and the only threat — the 
Witch- king of Angmar — had been routed within living mem-
ory. The fall of Moria was not the result of a long war or grim 
decline, but was an abrupt shock, a catastrophe unforeseen.
For many years after the fall of Moria, none of Durin’s 
Folk dared return to their fathers’ halls. They laboured else-
where, and the discovery of the wealth under the Lonely 
Mountain and its fabulous Arkenstone seemed almost like 
recompense for the loss of Khazad- dûm. The kings of Durin’s 
folk ruled their new kingdom, and made no attempt to retake 
their former home. Likely, the horrors of Durin’s Bane lay 
heavily on them, and tales of the darkness were passed down 
along with tales of the glory of the old kingdom.
As is related elsewhere, after the calamity of Smaug 
destroyed Erebor (though at least the coming of the Dragon 
was not wholly without warning, for other Dwarf- halls had 
fallen in similar fashion) King Thrór gave the kingship to 
Thráin and returned to Moria along with his servant Nár. 
There, he was slain by Azog, and thus began the War of the 
Dwarves and Orcs. Durin’s Folk rallied to Thráin’s call to 
arms, and so did the other Dwarven peoples.
After the grievous victory at the Battle of Azanulbizar, 
Thráin declared that Khazad- dûm had been reclaimed, but 
Dáin gainsayed him, declaring: “the world must change, and some 
other power than ours must come before Durin’s Folk walk again in 
Moria.” At the same time, those who were not of Durin’s Folk 
but joined Thráin’s cause said: “Khazad- dûm was not our Fathers’ 
house. What is it to us, unless a hope of treasure?”
There was much weeping to be done, for the victory had 
been a costly one, and none of the Dwarves save Thráin had 
the heart to brave the darkness. They left the Dimrill Dale 
and dispersed again.
That day, nearly two centuries ago, began the race for 
Khazad- dûm.
Durin’s Folk
Alone of all living Dwarves, only Dáin Ironfoot has seen beyond 
the shadow of the gate. He knows that Durin’s Bane waits in 
the darkness, and he has forbidden his followers from setting 
foot in Moria. None of Durin’s Folk would ever directly dis -
obey his word, of course — Dáin is King under the Mountain, 
and his word is law. However, in secret, there are whispers and 
grumbling that now is the time to retake Khazad- dûm, and 
Durin’s Folk should return to Durin’s halls. These Dwarves 
will not return to Moria openly, but they have begun to lay 
the groundwork for an eventual expedition. Certain wealthy 
LONELINESS OF THE MOUNTAIN
This section contains far, far more Lore  master char -
acters than you should ever use! Meeting another 
explorer should be a very rare event — the lost city 
must feel lost and abandoned. Pick the characters 
that most appeal to you and your group, or those 
that arise naturally from your story.
If your campaign spans multiple years, then 
have one of these travellers arrive every few years.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 21 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
17
Longbeard Dwarves have begun to quietly hire adventurers in 
the taverns of Dale and Lake- town, or in the inns at Bree or 
Tharbad, for missions to scout out the approaches of Moria 
and to determine how many Orcs still lurk in the depths.
One of these Dwarves is Balin, son of Fundin. He is a 
cousin of King Dáin and one of the Twelve Companions of 
Thorin Oakenshield, making him one of the most important 
nobles in Erebor. If Balin were to openly defy Dáin’s decree, 
it would be a grave matter indeed. For now, Balin bides his 
time, gathering information about the state of Moria and the 
road south. He even visited his old friend, the noted burglar 
Bilbo Baggins, in 2949, possibly to see if Bilbo was willing to 
undertake another secret mission to another lost Dwarf- hold.
So, even if Durin’s Folk are forbidden by their King from 
returning to Moria, Dáin said nothing about hiring scouts, 
burglars and adventurers to investigate the possibility of a 
return — and such rogues would need close supervision, of 
course, lest they make off with treasures that rightfully belong 
to the Dwarves. Why, a Dwarf might need to follow his employ-
ees into Moria to provide hands- on management…
Fróra, Daughter of Dwalin
A young Dwarf, Fróra is the daughter of the famous Dwalin 
of the Twelve Companions, and the niece of Balin. She was 
but a child when her father went on the Quest of Erebor, 
and his success transformed the fortunes of Fróra, elevat -
ing her from the daughter of a smith to a princess of the 
Kingdom under the Mountain.
For a time, this sudden glory changed Fróra for the 
worse; she grew to be an arrogant hellraiser back in Erebor, 
known for getting drunk and starting fights, or throwing 
money around Dale. To teach the girl proper Dwarven 
discipline and modesty, King Dáin ordered that she be 
sent to the Blue Mountains (suspecting, rightly, that Fróra 
was the sort of Dwarf who would benefit from a few years 
wandering and adventuring).
However, Fróra is close to her uncle Balin, and shares 
his dream of reclaiming Moria. Instead of going to the 
Blue Mountains, or roaming Middle- earth at errantry, Fróra 
seeks adventurers to scout out Moria. She has a small for -
tune at her disposal, and all the tales that Balin told her as a 
child. She has great enthusiasm for the thought of returning 
to Khazad- dûm, and believes it to be her great mission, just 
like recovering the Mountain was her father’s task in life.
OCCUPATION:  Dwarf- princess
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Eager, Lordly
ENCOUNTERING FRÓRA
Fróra can be encountered anywhere along the upper Anduin 
valley, or on the road to the Blue Mountains. She knows she 
must avoid openly defying King Dáin, so she does not encamp 
near Moria, instead travelling around Wilderland and Eriador 
with her entourage (a mix of Dwarves and Dalish- folk). Fróra 
travels in style where she can; when in Dale, she rides around 
in a gilded carriage. Now that she is in the Wild where there 
are no paved roads, she makes do with a fine palfrey from 
Rohan and travelling garb studded with gemstones.
She knows how to use her wealth and reputation 
to impress, and can tell the tale of the Quest of Ere -
bor with such verve that one would swear that she had 
been one of the Twelve Companions. When encountering the 
Player- heroes, she will first try to overawe them so they under-
stand they are dealing with Dwarven royalty. She is impressed 
by competence and bravery, not wisdom. In conversation, 
she is archly aristocratic and formal, but with enough of an 
undercurrent of mischief to make her likeable.
LETTERS HOME TO BALIN
Fróra regularly sends updates back to her uncle in Erebor, 
but she takes precautions to ensure that Balin’s preparations 
for a return to Moria are not revealed to King Dáin or any 
other rivals. Her letters are written in a cipher, and she sends 
them only by trusted couriers who will deliver them directly 
into Balin’s hand. Player- heroes travelling to Lake- town or the 
Mountain may be employed as messengers to Balin.
Alternatively, the Player- heroes might come across one of 
her letters on the corpse of a courier, and trace it back to her.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 22 =====

CHAPTER 2
18
FRÓRA AS A PATRON
Unlike elder Patrons, Fróra is too young and inexperienced 
a Dwarf to be accounted wise. What she does have is plenty 
of ready money, and a singular goal in mind. She will pay for 
information about the current state of Moria — have the Orcs 
returned, and if so, how great are their numbers? Is the main 
entrance passable? What other entrances are there? What can 
be found within? Above all, she wants to know what King Dáin 
saw beyond the shadow of the gate…
FELLOW  SHIP BONUS:  +1
 ADVANTAGE:  The Wealth of Erebor
Gain 5 points of Treasure for each Player- hero in the 
Company when choosing the Meet Patron undertaking 
to visit Fróra. 
Lord Mjolin of Harmelt
As described in Ruins of the Lost Realm  (page 25) Mjolin 
rules the impoverished Dwarf- halls of Harmelt, in the 
south of the Ered Luin. While Harmelt was once famed for 
its rich gold mine, the veins of precious metal are worked 
out and the hold is failing.
MJOLIN AS A PATRON
Mjolin is desperate for a new source of wealth — desperate 
enough to risk the Black Pit. Obviously, he could not mount 
an expedition directly; not only would that mean disobeying 
the commandments of Dáin Ironfoot, but it would risk expos-
ing the problems of his clan. Therefore, Mjolin would have 
to work in secret — perhaps hiring a band of “not- Dwarves” 
to sneak into Moria as burglars and look for treasure.
FELLOW  SHIP BONUS:  +0
 ADVANTAGE:  Secrets of Rune- scribing
By choosing the Meet Patron Undertaking to visit Mjolin, 
one Player- hero in the Company may upgrade a piece 
of war gear with a Rune- scored Enchanted Reward. The 
Reward lasts only until the start of the next Fellowship 
Phase. 
Guldi the Watcher
Longbeard Dwarves brood on old offences. Sometimes, 
they sink into shadow, letting obsessions consume them. 
Guldi is one such Dwarf; he listened to the tales of lost 
Khazad- dûm, and dreamed of pale enchanted gold lost 
in the dark. After a time, working at the smithy was not 
enough for him. His mind wandered, his beard grew long 
and tangled, and he lost all interest in food or merriment. 
In his dreams, he walked the halls of his ancestors.
Now, after years of anguish, Guldi lurks outside Moria. 
He dares not go in — he remembers Dáin’s warning, and 
will not disobey his King — not yet. He contents himself, 
and satiates the madness that gnaws at his mind, by hunt -
ing down those who rob from Khazad- dûm.
What Guldi does not know is that his mind has already 
cracked. He himself goes into Moria in search of treasure; 
once back on the surface, he waylays innocent travellers, 
accuses them of thievery, and then ‘finds’ the treasures he 
took on their bodies. He has no idea that he is a murderous 
rogue, and believes himself to be defending the honour of 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 23 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
19
the Dwarves. He might even lead a company of adventur -
ers into Moria, then turn on them when they are outside…
OCCUPATION:  Wanderer
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE:  Crazed
Ibin the Ring-seeker
There are fewer Dwarf- maidens than Dwarf- men, and 
not all wish to marry. Ibin fell in love with one such maid, 
Alfrigga, and begged her for her hand. Now, Alfrigga was 
both a scholar of history and a distant cousin of the line of 
Durin, and she laughingly declared that she would wed 
Ibin only if he brought her the Ring of her family. Some 
believe that the ring was lost with Durin VI when Durin’s 
Bane woke up, or that Durin’s son Náin held it last. Others 
whispered that the ring was lost when King Thrór fell — but 
all the whispered rumours agreed that it must be in Moria.
Ibin did not care about the provenance or importance 
of the ring, but agreed to recover it so that he might wed 
Alfrigga. The other Dwarves — even Alfrigga — begged 
him to reconsider this foolish quest, but Ibin’s mind was set.
Ibin is a brave fool, with no understanding of the scale 
of the task ahead of him — and likely to bring doom upon 
anyone who travels with him. But Beren’s quest seemed 
even more futile, and he returned with a Silmaril in his 
hand to win Luthien as his bride. Perhaps Ibin is similarly 
blessed — but more likely, the Player-  heroes encounter 
him in Moria as a prisoner of the Orcs, or as a half- starved 
madman lost in the darkness, clutching a cheap brass ring.
OCCUPATION:  Treasure- hunter
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE:  Reckless
Dwarves of Other Houses
There are seven great houses of the Dwarves, each one 
descended from one of the seven fathers. Durin was the eldest, 
and his kinfolk, the Longbeards, settled Moria (and later 
Erebor and the Iron Hills). Some of the other houses dwelt 
in the east, and are said to have fallen ‘under the Shadow’; 
another two houses dwelt further west, in the region of Bele-
riand beyond the Blue Mountains. Their cities of Nogrod and 
Belegost were shattered when Beleriand was drowned, and 
many migrated east and settled in Moria.
These Dwarves honoured Durin as the eldest of their race, 
and so they answered the call of King Thráin in the War of 
Dwarves and Orcs. They feared to enter Moria after the vic -
tory at the Dimrill Dale, for many of their kin had also fallen 
in battle. In years after, though, they grew dissatisfied, whis -
pering “where is the reward for our loyal service? We bled to avenge 
Thrór, even though it was his own foolishness that brought him to 
ruin on the doorstep of Moria. Now that Moria is abandoned and 
the Orcs diminished, why should we not take weregild for our fallen.” 
Others are even more jealous, saying “the Longbeards have their 
new Kingdom under the Mountain, and their rivers run with gold 
— while we toil at the forge and live like beggars! If they are content 
with Erebor, then surely we may take Moria and its treasures as just 
recompense for our labours.”
Since the War of the Dwarves and Orcs, and especially 
since the Battle of Five Armies, a few Dwarves of the Blue 
Mountains have crept back into Moria, mostly via the western 
door. For now, they seek treasure, not a permanent presence 
in the halls…
Daza the Redhanded
Daza comes from the line of the Dwarves of Nogrod. His 
hair is a fiery ruby- red that catches the eye from a great 
distance; his voice is louder than the war- horns of the 
Rohirrim, and he throws himself into the fray ahead of 
all others. As a young warrior, he fought at the Battle of 
Azanulbizar, and thought nothing of the cause. Afterwards, 
with a taste for battle, he became a mercenary, fighting 
for hire in the Southlands.
It was not until he was wounded by an Orc that Daza’s 
thoughts turned once more to Khazad- dûm. The Orcs 
ambushed him on the Road; he slew most of them, but 
one of the wretches maimed his axe- hand and fled into 
the mountains. Unable to fight as he once did, Daza has 
become the herald of the Dwarves from the Blue Moun -
tains who feel they have a rightful claim to the treasures 
of Moria, and plans to mount a large expedition there 
himself in years to come. His kinfolk dream of wealth, but 
Daza dreams of finding the Orc who wounded him and 
taking slow revenge.
Daza cuts a flamboyant figure with his rich clothes, 
jewelled axe, and elaborate oaths of vengeance. He 
doesn’t hide his crippled hand, whose flesh was turned 
red by the Orc’s poisoned blade. He is exceedingly well 
travelled, and peppers his speech with strange phrases 
borrowed from the Haradrim.
OCCUPATION:  Herald
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Fierce, Vengeful
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 24 =====

CHAPTER 2
20
ENCOUNTERING DAZA
Daza tends to make a loud entrance wherever he goes, 
appearing in a flash of thunder or with a war- cry. Player-  
heroes are more likely to meet him on a battlefield than 
in a council. In conversation, Daza speaks quickly, and 
chops through problems and disagreements with the most 
direct approach possible — he has little time for formal -
ities or irrelevancies. He is a busy Dwarf, and he wants to 
get things done!
DAZA AS A PATRON
Daza has no reverence for Moria — “So what if the kings of 
old perished here? They’re dead, we’re alive, fetch the crowbar!” His 
damaged hand means he takes no part in the adventuring 
himself, but he eagerly assigns missions to the Player- heroes, 
sending them after famous treasures in Moria.
Depending on the events of your campaign and the 
actions of the Player- heroes, Daza might succumb to greed and 
Dragon- sickness and become as bad as any Orc, or he might 
be redeemed by the sights and memories of Lost Khazad-  
dûm and become a heroic captain fighting to reclaim the city.
FELLOW  SHIP BONUS:  +1
 ADVANTAGE:  Oaths of Vengeance
Spend Fellowship to make an adversary’s PROTECTION  
roll Ill- favoured. 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 25 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
21
Nál of the Iron Hills
Many secrets of metallurgy and smith- craft were lost in 
the fall of Moria, and none feel this loss more keenly than 
Nál. She is an ancient Dwarf- woman, famed for her skill in 
the smithy. Although she descends from the Dwarves of 
Belegost, she served the lords of the Iron Hills for many 
centuries — she forged the axe that took the head of Azog, 
and the armour worn by Náin son of Grór, and many other 
wonders besides. It was she who made many of the famous 
toys of Dale — mechanical birds that sing, or little soldiers 
that march and fight.
But always, she knew that her mastery of the craft was 
lacking compared to the smiths of old. When she reached 
her 275th year, she declared that she intended to make 
a pilgrimage to the Halls of Durin and touch the works 
of the ancients with her own hands. While Dáin feared 
that such a long journey would be too much for such an 
old woman, he gave permission for Nál to depart, and 
commanded that she choose a few dwarven warriors to 
accompany her south.
Now it should be noted that Nál chose only a single 
Dwarf to travel with — her great- grand- nephew Naldin. 
When she reached the Dimrill Dale, she encamped in a 
sheltered dell and refused to leave. She declared that she 
wants to recover the lost secrets of the smiths of Moria 
before she dies, and the only place that can be done is here.
OCCUPATION (NÁL):  Dwarf- smith
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Stern, Suspicious
OCCUPATION ( NALDIN):  Dwarf-  valet
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE:  True- hearted
ENCOUNTERING NÁL
Neither Nál nor Naldin are experienced travellers, and their 
camp has been spotted by denizens of Dimrill Dale, like 
Mocker Crawe (see page 74). The Company might encoun -
ter the elder smith when they rescue her and her nephew 
from attacking Orcs — or maybe the Orcs seize one of the 
Dwarves and drag them off into the dark. Ironically, the Orcs 
are likely to put Naldin to work in the forge, while dismissing 
Nál as too old for anything but the stew- pot.
NÁL AS A PATRON
Nál cannot venture into Moria herself, she’s too old. Naldin 
dares not enter the Black Pit either — but neither can he 
gainsay his fearsome great- great- aunt what will doubtless be 
her dying wish. Therefore, the young Dwarf must cast around 
for some doughty adventurers who might help Nál find the 
lore she seeks!
FELLOW  SHIP BONUS:  +0
 ADVANTAGE:  Dwarf- smithing
By choosing the Meet Patron undertaking to visit Nál, 
each Player- hero in the Company may additionally 
upgrade a piece of war gear with a Reward of their 
choice. The Reward lasts only until the start of the next 
Fellowship Phase. 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 26 =====

CHAPTER 2
22
Elves
Elves have a special dread of Moria. Even in the days of its 
glory, they did not like how deep the Dwarves delved, boring 
into the darkness of the mountains, but it was after its fall that 
their fears grew. The Elves of Lothlórien could sense that the 
Dwarves had awoken some nameless dread. Word of this new 
shadow stretched beyond Lórien, and even in Mirkwood they 
whispered of the dreadful Black Pit in the mountains, and it 
haunted their waking dreams. They blamed the greed and 
stubbornness of Durin’s Folk for this new peril, and for many 
long centuries, no Elf dared set foot in Moria.
Since Sauron returned to his tower in Mordor and the 
Lidless Eye opened once more, however, the High Elves have 
thought of the dark road once more. The mighty Elf- lords of 
Lórien and Rivendell cannot travel easily, for if the Eye sees 
them, it can direct the minions of Mordor to hunt them down. 
They must travel by secret roads to hide from Sauron’s sight, 
and no road is better hidden than the road through Moria. 
Some of those who dwell in Rivendell, too, dwelt in Hollin 
in Ages past, and recall fondly the glory days of Khazad- dûm 
— and the lesser Rings of Power they gave to the Dwarves. 
There are powers hidden in the dark places that may fortify 
the Elves against the coming darkness.
Haldir of Lórien
But there are some of us still who go abroad for the gath -
ering of news and the watching of our enemies, and they 
speak the languages of other lands. I am one. Haldir is 
my name.
Haldir is one of the Elf- scouts appointed to watch the bor -
ders of Lothlórien, including the valley of the Silverlode. 
Player- heroes are unlikely to encounter Haldir unless they 
are Elves or Dúnedain; those who trespass in the Golden 
Wood are either turned around by the wood’s enchant -
ment or are never seen again. However, it is possible that a 
wounded or desperate traveller exiting from Moria might 
wander close to Lórien to be rescued by Haldir.
OCCUPATION:  Scout
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Wary
Middle Men and Hobbits
Short are the lives of Men, and swiftly does history pass into 
legend. A thousand years have passed since Moria fell, and 
Men have forgotten that Durin’s Folk ever dwelt in the Misty 
Mountains. To them, Moria was always the Black Pit of the Orcs, 
a dreadful mine full of monsters from which no adventurer 
ever returned. There were vague tales of fabulous treasure-  
hoards down in the darkness, of piles of gems and gold and 
Mithril, lying forever out of reach of even the mightiest hero.
Then came the Battle of Five Armies, and the great defeat 
of the Orcs. Suddenly, whispers ran from Bree to the Fords of 
Isen, saying ‘Moria is emptied of Orcs — the treasures can be ours!’ 
Heroes and burglars went in search of the rumoured hoards. 
Most of these intruders perished — but tales were told of a 
few who entered the Black Pit and survived.
In recent years, then, a few adventurers have braved the 
doors of Moria.
THE THIEVES OF THARBAD
Tharbad commands the river- crossing of the Greyflood, and 
in years past had much commerce with the Dwarves of Moria. 
The wheat fields and farms east of the marshes fed the city 
for many centuries. After the Fall of Moria, some Dwarves 
fled to Tharbad, and sullenly plotted to reclaim their city 
from Durin’s Bane. At other times, when the rains fell heavily 
upon the Misty Mountains, cunning folk from Tharbad would 
creep down to the river and watch the swollen flood- waters, 
for golden treasures would often be washed down from the 
drowned treasuries of Moria.
Tharbad is mostly abandoned now, too; flood and plague 
and the growing darkness of the Mountains drove its inhabi-
tants north and south and west in search of safer homes. Only 
a few stubborn fools and thieves now remain, and all of them 
look with greedy eyes towards Moria. The folk of Tharbad 
remember more tales of old Moria than in other lands, and 
have closer friendship with the Dwarves. In recent years, the 
Bridge Inn in Tharbad has become a mustering post for those 
planning expeditions into the Black Pit. Would- be treasure 
hunters gather there to swap tales about Moria, and to talk 
about the fortunes they are sure to win in the depths. (Of 
course, the Thieves of Tharbad have learned that it is far safer 
to steal treasure from adventurers returning to Tharbad…)
Tharnow, Son of Gurnow
As described in Ruins of the Lost Realm (page 16), the oafish 
but ambitious son of the Master of Tharbad seeks adven -
ture and treasure, and thinks both could easily be found 
in Moria. Tharnow is foolish enough to just march to the 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 27 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
23
West- gate, expecting to find piles of gold and jewels lying 
waiting for him. However, he is accompanied by cronies 
and brutes from his father’s court, and those rogues have 
more cunning and a greater sense of self- preservation. 
They might waylay other explorers of Moria, or ally with 
the Orcs of Mordor (the Eye has already glanced at Tharbad, 
and seen how easily that rotten city might be turned to evil).
Should Tharnow perish in Moria, then his father’s wrath 
would fall not on the Orcs, but would instead blame other 
adventurers and treasure-  hunters. If they are alive and his 
son is dead, then surely they are responsible!
MEN OF WILDERLAND
Similarly, rumour of Moria has spread east. The Beornings, 
being a sensible and cautious folk, have shown little interest 
in entering a place called the Black Pit that is known to be 
full of Orcs — there’s enough trouble at their borders without 
stirring up more. The forefathers of the Rohirrim brought 
tales south of a once- great kingdom under the mountains 
now fallen into shadow, and say that only a fool would brave 
the darkness. In Dale, though, brave young knights raised on 
tales of their sires’ heroism in the Battle of Five Armies talk 
of marching south, spears flashing in the summer sun, and 
winning glory on the fields of the Dimrill Dale. If one Dwarf- 
hold can be reclaimed, why not another?
DUNLENDINGS
The wild men of Dunland have many tales of the Black Pit, 
none of them pleasant. Even before the coming of Durin’s 
Bane, the ancestors of the Dunlendings quarrelled with the 
Dwarves and their allies. For many centuries, no Man of Dun-
land ever trespassed close to the doors of Durin.
In recent years, however, word has come to the hill- tribes 
that a certain Wizard desires any books, scrolls, moulds, tools 
or jewels — especially “rings” from the Black Pit. Saruman’s 
quest for Ring- lore has brought him to the gates of Moria, in 
search of whatever remains of the lost secrets of the smiths 
of Eregion.
Arcinyas the Healer
Saruman the White has many agents in Dunland and 
Wilderland; Arcinyas is one of his most reliable, although 
the mortal man is now exceedingly old and frail, so his 
years of service are coming to an end. Arcinyas is a scholar, 
and presents himself as a healer and a seeker after knowl -
edge. If Arcinyas becomes aware that there are explorers 
active in Moria, he would approach them and offer his ser -
vices as a healer. Once he has their trust, he invites them 
to visit his master at Isengard.
And should Arcinyas fail, or if these explorers reject 
Saruman’s entreaties to find the lost Ring-  lore — then Saru -
man also commands the loyalty of Dunlending cut-  throats. 
These rogues might not be any good at finding secrets in 
Moria, but there are other uses for such tools.
Saruman as a Patron and his servants are described in 
Ruins of the Lost Realm , starting from page 40.
THE WOODMEN
The Woodmen know little of Moria; for them it is but a dis -
tant shadow from the dim past, and they have more pressing 
concerns. However, one branch of the Woodmen crossed 
the River and established another settlement in the foothills 
north of the Gladden Fields, where they mine for copper and 
tin. These Mountain- folk have explored the Misty Mountains 
to the south, and one clan of them has built a fastness in the 
hills overlooking the West Nether Vales. This settlement, Tar-
loch’s Hall (see page 128) is home to doughty hill- men and 
shepherds, who do not know that the ancient halls of Durin 
lie far beneath their feet.
However, Tarloch’s Hall holds a secret. Long ago, a shep-
herd found what she thought to be an ancient barrow on a 
hillside, and it has become the custom of Tarloch’s folk that 
youths must prove their courage by entering the barrow and 
returning with some token or treasure. The Woodmen draw 
no distinction between the various fallen kingdoms of elder 
days: Khazad- dûm, Hollin, Númenor, all their towers and 
roads and walls, all are the ancient work of giants.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 28 =====

CHAPTER 2
24
THE RIDERS OF ROHAN
The forefathers of the forefathers of the Rohirrim traded 
with the Dwarves, but all that is forgotten, save in stories of 
magic smiths under the mountains who forged weapons for 
heroes. The Eorlings know nothing of Moria, save vague sto-
ries about a dungeon where the enchantress of the Golden 
Wood imprisons those foolish enough to trespass in her land.
Heirs to the Men of the West
Moria and Númenor are both names out of the past that have 
become legend, echoes of the elder days when great deeds were 
done. The Men of the West recall something of what Moria once 
was, in days before the fall, just as they recall vanished Númenor.
RANGERS OF THE NORTH
Tales are told in the Hall of Fire of Moria at its height, for 
Elves yet dwell in Rivendell who remember the days of glory. 
There are secrets remembered in the house of Elrond that 
even the Dwarves have forgotten. That said, the Rangers know 
better than to brave the darkness under the mountains with-
out cause. Rangers are more likely to prevent unwise expe -
ditions into Moria than join them.
But now that Sauron has returned, the Orcs of the Misty 
Mountains must be watched closely. The Doors of Durin are 
not so far from the Angle where the remnants of the Dúne -
dain dwell, and the ancient Enemy would gladly use the 
strength of Moria to crush the descendents of Isildur.
MEN OF GONDOR
Gondor has enough trouble without stirring up sleeping evils. 
To the folk of Minas Tirith, Moria is a memory of horror, 
another kingdom to be added to the litany of those destroyed 
by the Shadow. For all its impenetrable fortifications, Moria 
fell; the Tower of Guard must hope that the courage of Men 
endures where even steel and stone failed.
EXISTING PATRONS & MORIA
Of the Patrons from The One Ring  core rulebook, only 
Balin, son of Fundin  has a direct interest in Moria — and 
he must tread very carefully to avoid offending King 
Dáin Ironfoot. In 2965, he relies on his niece Fróra ( page 
17) to gather information about the ruined city, and 
her letters back to him kindle the dream of returning 
to the Halls of Durin. If Balin is the Company’s estab -
lished Patron, he might ask them to escort his niece on 
what seems like an innocent pilgrimage that turns into 
a scouting expedition.
Similarly, Bilbo Baggins  might send the heroes to 
help out Fróra, especially if she passes through the Shire 
on the road from the Blue Mountains. Other Dwarves 
like Mjolin ( page 18 ) might go to Bilbo seeking the 
famous Burglar, only for Bilbo to redirect their enquiries 
to younger souls like the Player-heroes.
Círdan the Shipwright  dwells far from Moria. He is 
old enough to remember the city as it was in its glory, 
and prefers to remember it that way. However,  Círdan’s 
gift of foresight might compel him to send the heroes to 
Moria to thwart the schemes of some villain. Alternatively, 
Daza the Redhanded ( page 19 ) might have done some 
heroic deed in service to the Elves of Lindon, and in pay -
ment of this debt, Círdan sends the heroes to accompany 
Daza on a treasure-hunt.
Gandalf the Grey  would caution the Player-heroes to 
put all thoughts of Moria from their minds — only a fool 
(Took or otherwise) would go looking for trouble in the 
dark places of the world. Gandalf did exactly that in 2849 
while looking for Thráin ( page 180 ), and barely sur -
vived. However, he might send the heroes into the dun -
geon to investigate some lost wonder: maybe  Gandalf 
glimpsed the Udûn-temple ( page 161 ) or the crawling 
horror of Angolath ( page 109 ). Of the potential patrons 
in this book, Gandalf would be most sympathetic to old 
Nál of the Iron Hills ( page 21 ).
Gilraen the Fair  knows Moria only as a pit of Orcs, 
and an obstacle on the way to Lórien. She might direct 
the heroes to aid Daza the Redhanded — or, more 
likely, to help Haldir of Lórien ( page 22 ) ensure that 
meddle some Dwarves don’t stir up worse evil under the 
mountains.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 29 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
25
A thousand years have passed since the fall of Khazad- dûm. 
More than thirty generations of mortal Men, long enough 
for memory to pass into story, story to become legend, and 
legend to be forgotten entirely. Even among the Dwarves, 
a full ten kings of Durin’s line have lived and died without 
setting foot in the King’s Hall. Of living beings, only the 
Elves remember the Wonder of the Northern World in all 
its lamp- lit glory.
The Shire was founded some three hundred years prior 
to the fall of Moria, and there was little trade between the two 
(records preserved in the Great Smial of Tookland note that 
Dwarven stonemasons were employed in the construction of 
that ancient Hobbit- hall). Most Hobbit- tales of Khazad- dûm are 
much, much older. Both the Harfoot and Stoor- Hobbits dwelt 
at times near Moria, and the Harfoot custom of living in bur-
rows may have been inspired by underground Dwarven cities.
Rumours
Should the Player- heroes seek out tales of Moria, then call for 
a LORE  roll. If the roll fails, give the players a False Rumour. 
On a success, give them a Genuine Rumour; if the roll pro -
duces a single , roll on the Famous Landmarks table  using 
1 Success die instead. With two or more , roll on the Famous 
Landmarks table as above, and additionally roll a Feat die on 
the Obscure Landmarks table. If the characters receive a rumour 
about a specific landmark, use the Rumour entry provided 
for that landmark in Chapter 5.
FALSE RUMOURS (FAILED LORE ROLL)
Nonsense and lies about Moria.
ROLL A FEAT DIE
Someone overhears the conversation, and assumes 
the heroes have recently returned from Moria and 
are therefore rich with treasure. The Company is 
robbed or attacked that night.
1 It’s bad luck to speak of that place.
2 Giants dwell in the Misty Mountains, and their 
graves lie under the mountain. Let them sleep 
there until the world’s ending.
3 Moria? I’ve heard of Moria. It’s away down south. 
Full of fiery mountains and terrible things, they say.
4 I’ve heard tell of Moria — the Dwarves got driven 
out by a dragon, they say, but now the dragon’s 
dead and the Dwarves have returned, and the riv -
ers run with gold.
5 There’s a maze under the mountain. If you stray 
into it, you’ll be lost forever.
6 Moria? It’s a roost of Orcs and Goblins. There’s 
nothing there but evil and Orcs.
7 The mountains are full of gold and silver if you 
know where to dig. Great piles of jewels too — 
the treasures of the Dwarves of old. All cursed, of 
course — I wouldn’t take any of it.
8 Moria? It’s just a tale the Dwarves made up. A 
vision from eating too many cave- mushrooms.
9 According to the tales the Dwarves tell, there’s a 
door into Moria near the source of the Glanduin. 
Just follow the river, and you’ll find it.
10 It was poison and plague that brought ruin to the 
Dwarves. The air’s foul down there — one breath 
will kill you.
Someone overhears the conversation and the men -
tion of Moria — someone like a prospective patron 
or ally.
A Name of Ill-omen
“The name of Moria is black.”
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 30 =====

CHAPTER 2
26
GENUINE RUMOURS (SUCCESSFUL LORE ROLL)
Stories and faded memories of Moria.
ROLL A FEAT DIE
King Dáin forbids the Dwarves to return to the city 
of the ancestors. Only a fool — or a grave- robbing 
thief — would defy the king’s command!
1 You can often find Dwarven pilgrims near the Stair 
Falls west of Moria — they go there to gaze upon 
the mountains of their ancestors.
2 It’s dangerous to be in the Dimrill Dale at night — 
the Orcs cannot abide sunlight, but as soon as the 
sun sets, they can go abroad.
3 Moria has long since been looted by Orcs — if any 
of the treasures of the Dwarves survive, they must 
be well- hidden indeed.
4 I’ve heard tales of Goblins kidnapping travellers in 
the mountains and dragging them down into their 
caves to labour in the mines.
5 The Dwarves are doughty warriors — no doubt 
they fought to the bitter end when their city was 
overrun. ‘tis strange that there are no tales of the 
last stand of the king.
6 Beware the birds of the Dimrill Dale — they’ve got 
a taste for corpse- meat.
7 I once heard a tale of the spirit of Caradhras — she 
was a beautiful woman, with red lips, but her kiss 
was the icy wind of winter. If you encounter her, 
beware!
8 The Dwarves built in the heights as well as under -
neath the mountain. Climb, and you may find 
traces of those lost halls!
9 Don’t drink any water from the wells and streams 
in Moria! Orcs have poisoned them all!
10 Tread lightly! Do not disturb the silence and the 
dark. You are not alone down there!
Someone overhears the conversation and the men -
tion of Moria — someone like a prospective patron 
or ally.
FAMOUS LANDMARKS  
(A SINGLE  ICON ON THE LORE ROLL)
ROLL A SUCCESS DIE
1 The First Hall ( page 86 )
2 The Second Hall and Durin’s Bridge ( page 88 )
3 The Caves of Thrym Thistlebeard ( page 96)
4 The King’s Hall ( page 100)
5 The Redhorn Gate ( page 117 )
6  The Doors of Durin ( page 147 )
OBSCURE LANDMARKS  
(TWO OR MORE  ICONS ON THE LORE ROLL)
ROLL A FEAT DIE
Roll again, but the person telling the rumour is 
secretly an enemy of the Player- heroes — possibly 
trying to lure them into a trap. Reroll additional 
 or .
1 The Mounds of Azanulbizar ( page 79 )
2 The Chamber of Mazarbul ( page 104 )
3 The Vault of Uruktharbun ( page 106 )
4 The Fortress of Malech ( page 110 )
5 The Mountain Galleries ( page 122 )
6 The Halls of the Roadwarden ( page 133 )
7 The Great West Cave ( page 135 )
8 The Imperishable Hall ( page 138 )
9 The Armouries of the Third Deep ( page 151 )
10 The Ledge of Woe ( page 158 )
The heroes encounter someone who has knowl -
edge of a Hidden Landmark, like Tarloch’s Hall for 
example.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 31 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
27
Running Moria
“Moria! Moria! Wonder of the Northern world! Too deep we delved there, and woke 
the nameless fear. Long have its vast mansions lain empty since the children of Durin fled.”
Moria is not a fortress of the Enemy, like Barad- Dur or Minas 
Morgul. It is not a dungeon brimming with traps and mon -
sters — there are traps and monsters here, but for the most 
part Moria is empty. It is a ruined city, endless and bleak, the 
air heavy with melancholic gloom. Exploring Moria is not a 
madcap adventure that bounces from one weird encounter 
to another; for the most part, it is a cold march through a 
dark place, silent and lonely as a grave. Fear and gloom should 
be the campaign’s dominant moods.
The challenge for the Lore master, then, is cultivating 
that mood without the game becoming dull or repetitive. 
Endlessly describing empty rooms filled with dust and rub -
ble quickly bores any player; filling the game with com -
bat encounters and hazards makes Moria seem much too 
crowded.
Instead, for each expedition into Moria, choose a theme 
and develop that in the course of play through your descrip-
tions and encounters — aim for an emotional impression of 
the journey instead of a rote litany of regions explored. In 
fact, we recommend picking two of the themes below, one 
from each category. One category focusses on the city as it 
was, on the wonders of Khazad- dûm, the other on the perils 
of the present ruin. Each theme includes suggestions to build 
scenes and Journey Events around.
Themes of Wonder
If Moria is nothing but Orcs and darkness, the tragedy is lost. 
Moria must have its faded grandeur and shattered glory, too 
— the Player- heroes must want to return, just one more time, 
to see the halls of Durin again.
VAST AND INTRICATE 
BEYOND IMAGINATION
Moria is huge and ancient; for seven thousand years the 
Dwarves laboured here, building and expanding their city. 
This theme emphasises Moria’s sheer size and complexity, 
impressing on players the grandeur and sophistication of the 
past compared to the fallen and diminished present.
 ♦ Use the Dwarven practice of numbering rather 
than naming to convey the city’s size; if this is the 
Twenty- First Hall, and it is on the Seventh Level, then 
there are tens more halls of equal or greater impor -
tance, and six or more other levels of equal size. Every 
extant building in Eriador east of the Tower Hills — 
from the towns of the Shire, to Bree and its smaller 
villages, to the House of Elrond Half- elven — could 
be swallowed up in a corner of just one of those levels 
and hardly be noticed.
 ♦ Talk about the cunning engineering of the city — 
its infrastructure of roads, ramps, stairs and eleva -
tors, its airshafts, drains and pumps, its gates, cisterns 
and lamps.
 ♦ Have the Company encounter some great civic wonder, 
some luxury that only a highly advanced culture could 
afford. A vast library, perhaps, or a theatre, or a gallery 
of the arts, or a palace of great kings. All ruined and 
faded now, of course, but echoes of that ornate glory 
are still visible.
 ♦ When the Company camps for the night, one of the 
Player- heroes dreams of being alive in the city’s heyday. 
Ask them to describe that dream.
In the pale ray of the wizard’s staff, Frodo caught glimpses of stairs 
and arches, and of other passages and tunnels, sloping up or run -
ning steeply down, or opening blankly on either side. It was bewil -
dering beyond hope of remembering.
THE DARK AND SECRET WAY
Moria was a hidden kingdom, buried beneath the moun -
tains. There are innumerable secrets to be uncovered here, 
as travellers can pass unseen along these dark roads. Think 
of the Player- heroes as explorers or archaeologists, entering a 
tomb that has been undisturbed for centuries. The flickering 
light of their torches illuminates wonderful things, treasures 
of the ancient world.
 ♦ Have the Company come upon unexpected but 
stunning vistas — a secret window that looks out 
over the mountains, a bridge spanning a yawning 
cavern, a shaft that plunges into the depths of the 
earth, or a chamber still lit by ancient lamps of glow -
ing crystal.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 32 =====

CHAPTER 2
28
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 33 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
29
 ♦ Include secret or magical doors and hidden passages; 
doorways that appear only when a Dwarf touches 
them, or chambers that have lain concealed for a 
thousand years.
 ♦ Have the Company espy or even eavesdrop upon their 
foes; maybe they overhear Orcs talking in an adjoin-
ing room, or hear voices echoing up some shaft. Alter-
natively, maybe the Company can sneak by their foes 
by slipping down a secret passageway or along an 
unseen walkway.
Dwarf- doors are not made to be seen when shut. They are invisi -
ble, and their own makers cannot find them or open them, if their 
secret is forgotten.
THE ANCIENT WORK OF GIANTS
This theme focusses on the sheer scale of the works within 
Moria — this was a city of epic, heroic proportions, a city 
built by Dwarves with the spirits of giants. The Player-  
heroes and their foes are like furtive mice, scratching and 
sneaking in the corners of a great house. To reinforce 
this theme:
 ♦ Have the Company pass over or around gigantic struc-
tures — titanic statues, like the twin sentinels of the 
Argonath, aqueducts like raging rivers, forges where a 
legion of smiths might labour all at once.
 ♦ Hint at lost secrets of the Dwarves — just as Orthanc 
was made of stone without joint or mortar, maybe the 
ancient folk of Moria learned to shape stone without 
mason’s chisel, or could make living statues that walked 
and laboured on their behalf — now fallen into rubble.
 ♦ Contrast the geometric perfection and tremendous 
scale of the works of old, with the paltry scrapings of 
the Orcs and the slow intrusion of nature. A vast hall 
might have a few weeds growing in one corner, where 
the ceiling has cracked letting the sunlight in. As the 
Company approach, they realise the ‘weeds’ are actu-
ally huge rowan trees, centuries old, grown from seeds 
that fell here and took root among the broken stones.
For a second they saw a vast roof far above their heads upheld by 
many mighty pillars hewn of stone.
THE LAND WHERE OUR 
FATHERS WORKED OF OLD
Khazad- dûm is forever the home of the Longbeard Dwarves 
in Middle- earth, no matter how far they roam or whatever 
other halls and fortresses they make. Here it was that Durin 
dwelt since the Elder Days, and here it was that the Dwarven 
clans had their great houses and secret shrines. This theme 
is best when you have got one or more Dwarves among the 
Player- heroes, as it revolves around reminding them of their 
spiritual and cultural connection to Moria.
 ♦ While exploring the ruins, one of the Player- heroes 
finds an ancient family seal, or a statue of one of 
their ancestors.
 ♦ Run a flashback scene where one of the Dwarven 
Player- heroes recalls a family legend about how their 
forefathers escaped from the city as it fell.
 ♦ A Player- hero might recover Hope by visiting their fam-
ily’s ancient stronghold. Better yet, have a Player- hero 
taking a new Reward or finding a Famous Weapon dis-
cover an ancestral blade in the ruins!
‘I will go and look on the halls of Durin, whatever may wait there!’
PILES OF GOLD AND JEWELS
Moria has endured a thousand years of looting — but the 
Dwarves worked here for seven thousand years, and if anyone 
knows how to hide their treasure, it is Durin’s folk. The easy 
pickings may be long gone, but there are still hoards here, 
locked away beyond the reach of greedy Orcs.
 ♦ Even a small treasure can be meaningful. Finding a 
few coins of little worth amid the fallen stones beto-
kens greater rewards in future — if the Orcs did not 
find these coins, then what else did they miss?
 ♦ The Dwarves did not flee Moria immediately when 
Durin’s Bane awoke; it took them nearly two years 
before completely abandoning the city. There was 
not enough time to take all the treasures of the Dwar -
rowdelf — but there was time to hide them, conceal -
ing them behind Dwarf- doors and cunning puzzles. 
The clues for recovering a particular treasure might 
be handed down in the form of a rhyme of lore or 
family secret.
 ♦ If Moria was looted by the Orcs — then the Orcs 
have the gold. Each of the chieftains of the Orc- tribes 
— Malech, Gorgol, Thu — commands a treasury to 
rival the hoard of Smaug. Slay the Orcs and take back 
the gold!
‘Its worth was greater than the value of the whole Shire and every -
thing in it.’
THE CITY RECLAIMED
This theme looks to the future of Moria, and explores the 
promise that the city can be rebuilt. Focus on laying the foun-
dations for an eventual return — as Dáin prophesied, the 
Dwarves will only return successfully to Khazad- dûm after 
the world has changed.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 34 =====

CHAPTER 2
30
 ♦ Have the Company make some discovery within Moria 
that can be built upon in future expeditions — they 
might find a hitherto- unknown route in or out, or a safe 
source of drinking water, or a sanctuary within the ruin.
 ♦ Give the Player- heroes the opportunity to fix something. 
This can be as small as barricading a door so the Com-
pany have a secure room to make camp in, or as signifi-
cant as repairing one of the broken wonders of the city.
 ♦ While camping, one of the Company finds some Dwarf- 
made item that was unfinished when the city was aban-
doned. A sword- blade without a hilt, wooden barrel- staves 
without a hoop, a statue half- carved. The Player- heroes 
can take up the dropped tools and complete the work. 
The Dwarves believe they are destined to restore all cre-
ation to rightness and beauty when evil is finally defeated, 
so a Dwarf’s work is never done in Arda Marred.
For a while we had news and it seemed good: messages reported that 
Moria had been entered and a great work begun there.
Themes of Sorrow and Fear
A theme of wonder reminds the Company of the lost glories 
of Moria, and shows them it is more than a black pit filled 
with Orcs. Themes of Sorrow and Fear, however, remind them 
they are in grave danger. Vary the theme for each excursion 
into Moria (or each leg of a long journey) so the feeling of 
peril changes.
The nature of the danger may change depending on the 
events of the game; do not stick to a theme if it is overtaken 
by events. A series of really unlucky rolls can change the tale 
from a journey in the Long and Lonely Dark to a desperate 
flight from Horrors Beyond Knowledge.
THE LONG AND LONELY DARK
To enter Moria is to vanish from the sight of the world, and 
mayhaps perish far from sunlight, never to be found again. 
Darkness lies heavily upon these halls.
 ♦ Emphasise the darkness and the importance of light. 
If the Company do not have a Wizard or a magical 
source of light, then they must rely on a dwindling 
supply of torches or the occasional glimpse of light 
from shafts. Describe textures, smells and sounds 
instead of visual impressions. Play on their fears — 
maybe they glimpse shifting shadows that could be 
lurking foes, or just a trick of the light.
 ♦ Require the Company to describe their camping 
arrangements, and then describe how the gloom 
of Moria makes these unpleasant. If the Player-  
heroes carry bedrolls, then note how the chill of the 
stone floor makes them cold as graves. Foul water 
drips from above; every resting place is grim and 
uncomfortable.
 ♦ Play with the Player- heroes’ sense of time. They have 
no way to tell the hour of the day without seeing the 
sun, or of knowing how long they have been wander-
ing down here — especially if they are lost. You might 
even tell individual players different things depending 
on their characters’ Shadow ratings — those closer to 
being Miserable might perceive the length of the jour-
ney differently…
All about them hung the darkness, hollow and immense…
ARDA MARRED
Moria has lain under a shadow for more than a thousand 
years, and all that was once good and beautiful is now cor -
rupted. This theme focusses on the decay and rot of the city.
 ♦ Emphasise the crumbling state of the city — every -
thing is broken and falling apart. Talk about collapsed 
ceilings, blocked passageways, weed- choked shafts. 
Even structures that appear at first glance to be strong 
and stable might crumble away; have attacking Orcs 
smash through a wall instead of approaching down a 
passageway.
 ♦ The Goblins have perverted and adapted the Dwar-
ven machinery to their own cruel ends. The Company 
encounters Goblin- bombs and other traps in lieu of 
other hazards, all made from Dwarven works of old.
 ♦ The Company comes upon some fabled treasure of the 
Dwarves — a crystal lamp, a delicate mosaic, a famous 
statue — only to find it defiled and ruined for no rea -
son other than petty Orcish vandalism.
‘I have looked on Moria, and it is very great, but it has become dark 
and dreadful, and we have found no sign of my kindred.’
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 35 =====

AND AT THE GATES, THE TRUMPETS RANG
31
TOIL AND HUNGER
Moria was not built in a day; nor can it be reclaimed in a 
single day, nor even a single year. It will take many years, 
not to mention the coming of a power other than that of 
Durin’s Folk, before Moria is theirs again. Furthermore, 
Moria is far from civilised lands. In the west, the closest 
Haven is the grim town of Tharbad; to the east, travellers 
must trek all the way back up the Anduin to the Beorning-  
land before they meet a friendly face. Unless, of course, 
the Player- heroes have befriended the folk of Swanfleet in 
the west, or Lothlórien in the east, both of which are much 
closer to its gates. There’s also Tarloch’s Hall on the far side 
of Caradhras (see page 128).
 ♦ There is no hunting in Moria. It is assumed that the 
Player- heroes carry enough food for their planned expe-
dition underground, but if they are lost, delayed or suf-
fer some other misfortune, they may face the pangs of 
hunger and thirst — and when they return to the sur-
face, they will need to replenish their supplies promptly.
 ♦ Similarly, keep reminding the Company of their light 
sources. They are assumed to have a stock of torches 
or other lights, but torches mean smoke and heat, 
candles mean dripping wax and flickering flames, and 
magic light draws plenty of attention.
 ♦ Remind them of their lack of other supplies, too. 
Using rope to climb down a chasm is all well and good, 
but — as Sam observed — how do you get the rope 
back when you are done with it?
‘Go carefully with the water, too! There are many streams and wells 
in the Mines, but they should not be touched.’
THE TRIUMPH OF THE ENEMY
Moria is firmly in the hands of the Orcs and other crea -
tures of the Enemy. Indeed, their hold is so secure here 
that their chief enemy is one another — there is no hope 
of the Dwarves recovering the city until the world changes. 
The Player- heroes may be able to accomplish some good, 
but only as thieves — not avenging heroes.
 ♦ Emphasise the sheer number of Orcs here. Slay one, 
and three more will emerge from noisome holes. Have 
the Orcs be much more concerned with their own 
feuds and intrigues than the threat of outsiders.
 ♦ Show the Player- heroes that the Orcs are not just lurk-
ing and looting — they are taking slaves, working the 
mines, and preparing for the coming War. As Sauron’s 
dreadful gaze moves across the land, he inspires his 
creatures to make ready for his triumph over the West.
‘If beggars do not wait at the door, but sneak in to try thieving, that 
is what we do to them. If any of your people poke their foul beards 
in here again, they will fare the same. Go and tell them so!’
THERE IS NO SAFE PLACE
There are truly safe places in Moria, but they are few and 
secret. For the most part, there is nowhere the Company can 
rest where they will be completely secure. Always mention 
“something” to sow doubt in the minds of the players. For 
example, the Fellowship made camp in a guard- room with an 
uncapped well, and Pippin feared something might crawl out 
of it as they slept. To engender similar discomfort, mention:
 ♦ Cracks, air- shafts, cave mouths, doors locked from the 
far side, trapdoors, suspected secret passages, unno-
ticed side entrances — never let the Player- heroes feel 
wholly in command of their surroundings
 ♦ Strange noises and smells — dripping or flowing water, 
the groaning of the mountains, distant tapping or 
drumming.
 ♦ Ask the Player- heroes to describe their own specula-
tions or worries in- character, especially if they are close 
to being Miserable
They were more than weary, and yet there seemed no comfort in the 
thought of halting anywhere.
HORRORS BEYOND KNOWLEDGE
Few words Tolkien wrote are as mysterious as Gandalf’s 
description of his experiences in the Underworld. “We fought 
far under the living earth, where time is not counted. Ever he clutched 
me, and ever I hewed him, ‘till at last he fled into dark tunnels. They 
were not made by Durin’s folk, Gimli son of Glóin. Far far below the 
deepest delvings of the Dwarves, the world is gnawed by nameless 
things. Even Sauron knows them not. They are older than he.” For 
all its terror, even the Balrog has its place in the cosmology of 
Middle- earth, as a servitor spirit of Morgoth. Gandalf’s words 
hint at other powers, nameless and unknown.
 ♦ Hint at things the Company will never learn the 
truth about. They might hear some creature crawling 
through the tunnels, its scaly hide rasping against the 
stone. They might glimpse purple light in the distance, 
but never discover its source. They might find a cryptic 
message scrawled on a wall, but never learn its mean-
ing. The mysteries of Moria haunt the reader; answers 
are quickly accepted and do not linger.
‘Something has crept, or has been driven out of dark waters under 
the mountains.’
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 36 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 37 =====

CHAPTER 3CHAPTER 3
JOURNEJOURNEYYSS    
IN IN TTHHE E DDAARKRK
Boromir muttered under his breath, but the echoing stone magnified the sound  Boromir muttered under his breath, but the echoing stone magnified the sound  
to a hoarse whisper that all could hear: ‘In the deep places of the world!  to a hoarse whisper that all could hear: ‘In the deep places of the world!  
And thither we are going against my wish. Who will lead us now in this deadly dark?’And thither we are going against my wish. Who will lead us now in this deadly dark?’
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 38 =====

CHAPTER 3
34
he present chapter introduces special rules for 
travelling in Moria, adapted from the normal Jour-
ney rules for The One Ring.
The map of Moria included with this supple -
ment can be used by the Lore master as an actual artefact that 
the Player- heroes may find in their adventuring, or the sum 
of the knowledge a Company of experienced adventurers 
may have gathered from different sources.
All the locations featured on the map can be chosen 
as the destination of a Company entering Moria, using the 
game mechanics described in the Into the Long Dark  sec -
tion below. Yet, not every site within Moria is shown on the 
map — finding other, more obscure landmarks is a differ -
ent endeavour, covered by the Seeking and Finding  section 
on page 38.
Into the Long Dark
There were not only many roads to choose from, there were also in many places holes 
and pitfalls, and dark wells beside the path in which their passing feet echoed.
When the Company enters Moria with the intention of reach-
ing a known location (a Landmark shown on the map, for 
example), or to travel through the ruins to exit the opposite 
way, then the Lore master must apply the following adaptation 
of the Journey rules.
The following rules require the Moria map, and col -
laboration between the Lore master and the players to 
determine what happens along the way.
The Company Underground
When the Company journeys underground, its members must 
assume travelling roles normally, with the exception of the 
Hunter. While it is assumed that in the course of a normal jour-
ney, Hunters in the Company augment and replenish what -
ever supplies they have brought with them with the bounty 
of the Wild, no such opportunities exist in Moria.
Hunters are instead replaced by Delvers, whose func -
tion is to ensure the safety of the marching Company, 
inspecting tunnels, monitoring environmental condi-
tions, and in general mitigating risks connected to the 
structures of an underground complex. Their defin -
ing Skill is CRAFT .
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 39 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
35
As usual, the travelling Company must cover all available roles 
— in this case, the roles of Guide, Delvers, Look- outs and Scouts.
Finally, ponies and other beasts of burden will not 
accompany a Company into the dark unless they 
are truly exceptional animals (like a Bree-  pony) or 
unless a Player- hero achieves a Magical success on an 
ENHEARTEN  roll.
SPARE FOOD AND WATER-SKINS
Unable to hunt in Moria, the members of a Company are 
assumed to carry enough food and water to sustain them for 
the length of their subterranean explorations.
If the Lore master and players are interested in dwelling 
upon this sort of minutiae, all Player- heroes must raise their 
Load score by 4 points, to represent the added burden of 
carrying extra food and water.
MANY STREAMS AND WELLS
“There are many streams and wells in the Mines, but they 
should not be touched.”
Gandalf warned that the Company should avoid drink -
ing from the waters of Moria — but why? Pick one of the 
following perils, or roll on the Peril Table below for each 
source of water. (Note that the table includes a chance 
that the Company happen upon drinkable water!)
If the Player- heroes refill and open the High Cistern 
(see page 124 ), then the waters in the eastern portion 
of Moria become drinkable again.
PERIL TABLE
FEAT DIE 
ROLL WATER
The water is drinkable, but some foe lurks 
here — Orcs lying in wait, or a Nameless 
Thing.
1–2 Malice of Durin’s Bane
3–4 Poisoned by the Mines
5–6 Bitter Water
7–8 Orc- Filth
 9–10 Icy Cold
Pure, drinkable water
ORC-  FILTH:  Orcs have befouled the waters of Moria. Orcs 
must eat and drink like other living things, so they have 
not poisoned all the wells and springs — but they know 
which are safe to drink from, and keep guard over them. 
A Player- hero who drinks suffers a moderate Endurance 
loss due to poison.
BITTER WATER:  The waters that filter down to the city 
below pass through many layers of stone, and are almost 
indescribably bitter. To stomach this water, a Player- hero 
must pass a successful VALOUR  test; if they fail, they can -
not push themselves to drink.
ICY COLD:  The waters of Moria wash down from the 
heights of the mountains, and are fed by the snows. The 
water is icy cold, but drinkable. The true danger, though, 
is that this source of water only exists in the late spring 
and summer; for more than half the year, there is not 
enough snow melt to fill the aqueducts.
POISONED BY THE MINES:  The Dwarves dug deep in 
search of Mithril; the tailings from the mine have poi -
soned many of the springs and wells. They marked the 
tainted water sources, but the passing years and Orc-  
mischief have erased the warning signs. Consulting 
ancient records can identify safe springs; a Player- hero 
drinking from a tainted source in the Deeps, suffers a 
severe Endurance loss due to poison.
MALICE OF DURIN’S BANE:  The malign influence of the 
Balrog suffuses the waters of Moria. Anyone who drinks 
from the waters here tastes the tears of all the Dwarves of 
Khazad- dûm who wept as Durin’s Bane laid waste to their 
kingdom, gaining 2 points of Shadow (Sorcery). Those 
who fail the Shadow test or are miserable suffer from 
hallucinations akin to Moria- madness (see page 43 ).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 40 =====

CHAPTER 3
36
Journey Sequence
The sequence used to resolve an underground Journey is 
the usual:
1. Set Journey Path
2. Make Marching Tests
3. Ending the Journey
1
SET JOURNEY PATH
Using the Moria map, the Company shows the Lore-
master where they are headed. The Lore master 
then uses a ruler to measure the distance separating the Com-
pany from their destination, converting the measurement 
into miles using the scale shown on the map.
When measuring the distance that the Company must 
cover, the Lore master must con sider that the road in Moria 
may wind much — to accommodate for this, the final distance 
should always be rounded up, or even augmented by as much 
as 50%. If the chosen destination requires the Company to 
change levels often, climbing up or down, then the Lore-
master may even double the measured distance.
For ease of reference, the Lore master may draw a 
winding line on a copy of the journey log (see The 
One Ring, page 240), considering each hex to corre -
spond to 2 miles.
The path drawn on the journey log must not necessarily con-
form to the itinerary as suggested by the Moria map — the 
only requirement is that the number of hexes corresponds 
to the distance to cover.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 41 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
37
MORIA JOURNEY EVENTS
FEAT DIE 
ROLL EVENT CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL 
FATIGUE 
POINTS GAINED
Deadly Dark If the roll fails, the target is Wounded, and the Lore master raises the Eye 
Awareness of the Company by 1.
3
1–2 The Long Dark 
of Moria
If the roll fails, everyone in the Company gains 2 Shadow points (Dread). 2
3–5 Watchful Eyes If the roll fails, the target gains 1 Shadow point (Dread), and the Lore master 
raises the Eye Awareness of the Company by 1.
2
6–9 Endlessly Branching 
Stairs and Passages
If the roll fails, add 1 day to the length of the journey, and the target gains 1 
additional Fatigue. In addition, regardless of whether the roll is successful or 
not, roll on the Random Chamber Generator ( page 44).
2
10 The Right Way If the roll succeeds, reduce the length of the journey by 1 day. 1
Dread and Wonder 
of Moria
If the roll fails, the target gains 1 Shadow point (Dread). If the roll succeeds, 
everyone in the Company regains 1 Hope instead.
—
2
MAKE MARCHING TESTS
The occurrence of journey events is resolved as 
usual, with the Guide of the Company making 
Marching Tests, rolling TRAVEL . The roll loses (1d)  if the 
Company is in the Deeps or in the Mines of Moria regions.
As soon as the Company leaves, the Guide makes a first 
Marching Test, and counts a number of miles along the jour-
ney path based on the outcome of the TRAVEL  roll:
 ♦ If the TRAVEL  roll was a failure, the Company barely 
makes any progress, advancing by 2 miles on the jour-
ney path. Then, an event occurs.
 ♦ If the TRAVEL  roll was a success, the Guide has struck 
a good path and the Company advances 6 miles, plus 
2 additional miles for each Success icon. Then, an 
event occurs.
To determine the precise nature and consequences of an 
event, proceed to Event Resolution (to the right).
Once the event has been resolved, the Guide must make 
a new Marching Test to see how many miles the Company 
covers before something else happens along the journey path.
3
ENDING THE JOURNEY
The Company reaches its intended destination once 
a Marching Test result matches or exceeds the num-
ber of miles left between the Company’s current position and 
their point of arrival.
When this happens, all Player- heroes calculate their 
Fatigue normally, using the rules on page 111 of The One 
Ring. If necessary, the length of the journey in days can be 
calculated by dividing the total distance in miles by 10.
If the members of a Company are in need of haste, as the 
Fellowship of the Ring was when they passed through Moria, 
they can press themselves and march for more hours each 
day than they would otherwise dare.
If the Company undertakes a forced march, divide 
the total distance by 20 instead of by 10, but each 
Player-  hero accumulates 1 additional point of Fatigue 
for each day of forced march.
Event Resolution
Journey events in Moria are determined as usual, rolling a Suc-
cess die on the Event Target table below to select a target Player- 
hero, and by rolling a Feat die on the Moria Journey Events table.
EVENT TARGET
SUCCESS DIE ROLL TARGET SKILLS
1–2 Scouts EXPLORE
3–4 Look- outs AWARENESS
5–6 Delvers CRAFT
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 42 =====

CHAPTER 3
38
Seeking and Finding
The following modifications to the underground journey 
rules can be used when the Player- heroes venture into Moria 
in search of a place they’ve heard about but lack precise 
information concerning its location (for example, a place 
they have discovered using the Gather Rumours undertaking).
The minimum requirement is to know the approximate 
area where the Landmark is supposed to be found.
To find such a place, the Company must use the normal 
rules for underground journeys to reach the approximate 
region. Once there, the Company must make a Seeking 
Test, to pinpoint the precise location and reach it.
A Seeking Test is made rolling SCAN , modified by the Land -
mark’s Renown (see page 72): if the Landmark is Famous, 
the roll is resolved normally; if the Landmark is Obscure, the 
roll loses (1d); if the Landmark is Hidden, it can be found only 
with a Magical success (if the Company has found enough 
clues pointing to the Landmark, this one may be considered 
Obscure for the sake of the Seeking Test).
 ♦ If the Test is successful, the Player- heroes either find the 
Landmark sought — or, if the gathered rumours were 
false in the first place, they confirm that it is not nearby.
 ♦ If the Test fails, the Company does not find the 
Landmark and must roll once on the Moria Journey 
Events table.
Describing Moria
Nothing more was heard for several minutes; but then there came out of the depths 
faint knocks: tom- tap, tap- tom. They stopped, and when the echoes had died away, they 
were repeated: tap- tom, tom- tap, tom. They sounded disquietingly like signals of some 
sort; but after a while the knocking died away and was not heard again.
Adding disconcerting details when describing a journey 
through Moria is a wonderful trick for the Lore master, mak-
ing the Player- heroes apprehensive and fearful. It is especially 
effective if you tie these portents to the roll of an  and the 
increase in Eye Awareness.
Some options to drop into your Adventures follow:
GROANING OF THE MOUNTAINS:  The walls around the 
Company creak and dust falls as the mountain shifts and set-
tles. A distant groan, so deep they feel it in their bones rather 
than hearing it, echoes through the room.
FOOTSTEPS:  The sound of footsteps seems to follow the 
Player- heroes, almost but not quite matching the pattern of 
their own footfalls — as if someone is stalking them. After a 
few minutes, the other footsteps fall silent.
SCRAPING:  The Company hear scraping, as if someone is 
scratching at a stone with a blade or chisel. The sound seems to 
come from the far side of a wall or ceiling nearby, but there is no 
way to reach that spot without smashing through the stone wall.
DARK DREAMS:  Everyone shares the same awful nightmare 
of running through the dark halls of Moria, pursued by a 
figure of smoke and fire.
WHISPERS:  One of the Player-  heroes hears a whispering 
voice, urging them to turn from the path and walk into 
the darkness. They cannot make out individual words, just 
their name and the strong impression that they are being 
invited onwards.
SPLASHING:  In the distance can be heard the sound of splash-
ing water and a heavy, wet thump, as if something large had 
dragged itself out of a pool to stumble along the shore.
SCRATCHES:  Someone has scratched marks on the wall, 
scrawling what seems to be a message in an unknown lan -
guage. The marks might be crude Dwarf- runes, or a mockery 
of such. The one symbol that is clearly readable is an arrow, 
pointing off the path.
UNEXPECTED SKELETON:  The company comes upon a skel-
eton (Dwarf or Man), crouched against a door as if the poor 
creature squandered the last of its strength trying to push the 
portal open. The skeleton has some trait or broken piece of 
gear that is oddly reminiscent of one of the Player- heroes. For 
example, if one of them bears their ancestral sword as their 
most memorable signifier, then there is a blunt and rusted 
sword of similar design next to the skeleton.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 43 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
39
STRANGE WIND:  A wind — hot and foul, or bitterly cold — 
blows through the room, stirring up the dust and possibly 
snuffing the Company’s torches. The wind feels unnatural 
so deep underground.
BROKEN TOOLS:  On the ground, the Company finds the 
remains of a set of smith’s tools — hammers, tongs, rasps and 
files — all deliberately smashed. There is a sense of malice, of 
a deliberate rejection of craft.
DISTANT MACHINERY:  The sound of huge wheels, creaking 
and grinding into life, echoes through the halls in the dis -
tance. Chains rattle; heavy weights are dragged. The machin-
ery screeches and groans, then ceases with a sudden thump, 
as if something has collapsed.
SMOKE AND HEAT:  While the Player- heroes are resting, the 
floor of the room they are in becomes warmer over the course 
of the hours. It is never hot enough to be painful — it is even 
pleasant, driving away the chill of the chamber — but it is 
disconcerting nonetheless. There is a smell of oily smoke, 
suggesting there are fires below that are creeping towards 
the Company.
ECHOING SILENCE:  The silence of the city somehow becomes 
louder and heavier. Even the beating of the Player- heroes’ 
hearts and the sound of their breathing seems overwhelm -
ingly loud and intrusive. Every noise is bizarrely magnified, 
as if they were trespassing in some holy place.
DRUMS IN THE DEEP:  They are coming…
Drums in the Deep
Doom doom, it rolled again, as if huge hands were turning 
the very caverns of Moria into a vast drum.
Moria has fallen. It belongs to the Orcs now — to the Orcs, 
and to worse things. Outsiders might be able to slip through 
Moria without being noticed, but any exploration is almost 
certain to attract the attention of foes.
In game terms, this is represented by the rules for Eye 
Awareness as described on p. 169 of The One Ring rulebook.
Eye Awareness in Moria
The core rulebook outlines the main methods for increas -
ing a Company’s Eye Awareness score. While in Moria, the 
actions detailed in the following paragraphs also contribute 
to raising their visibility to the Enemy.
MAKING NOISE
Most of Moria is silent as a tomb. Footsteps or loud speech 
echo through the passageways, drawing the attention of Orcs 
— and worse things. Especially loud noises, such as smashing 
through locked doors, the grinding of ancient machinery, 
rockfalls, or the screams and shouts of battle can be heard 
for miles in the mines.
If the Company voluntarily takes some action that causes 
a loud noise, raise the Eye Awareness. The Lore master should 
make it clear that the action will result in such a consequence, 
and let the Player- heroes decide if the reward of the action 
is worth the risk.
 ♦ LESSER NOISE (+1 POINT):  Shouting, singing, drop-
ping a stone into a well
 ♦ LOUD NOISE (+2 POINTS):  The noise of combat, 
breaking down a door, smashing through an obstacle
 ♦ POWERFUL NOISE (+3 POINTS):  Beating a drum, 
causing a cave- in, explosions
ENCOUNTERS
The three major Orc- tribes — the Orcs of the Misty Mountains, 
the Mordor- orcs, and the Orcs of Udûn — all have scouts and 
sentries. These look- outs signal encounters with enemies back 
to their masters, and soon the mountains crawl with Orcs.
If the Player- heroes encounter an Orc- band, and some of 
their foes survive the battle, then raise the Eye Awareness by 
1, 2 or 3 points, depending on how many foes escaped, how 
close the Company is to an enemy stronghold, and whether 
or not the Company can flee the scene before reinforce -
ments arrive.
 ♦ LESSER DISCOVERY (+1 POINT):  A lone foe escapes
 ♦ MAJOR DISCOVERY (+2 POINTS):  A messenger escapes
 ♦ PERILOUS DISCOVERY (+3 POINTS):  A messenger 
escapes and there are more enemies nearby
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 44 =====

CHAPTER 3
40
Hunt Threshold
The base Hunt threshold for a Company in Moria is set at 
14, as Moria is considered a Dark Land (standard modifiers 
apply — see page 172 of The One Ring).
Once the Company’s Eye Awareness score matches or 
exceeds the Hunt Threshold, the Company is revealed 
and a Revelation episode is played out.
REVELATION EPISODES IN MORIA
In addition to the Revelation episode’s examples provided on 
page 173 of the core rules, the present section features four 
sets of Revelation episodes for Moria — the Lore master can 
pick the table that is most appropriate to the circumstances.
The Dire Portents table is mostly foreshadowing and natu-
ral perils; Orc Assault, obviously, means Orcs and similar foes 
have found the Player- heroes. Terrors of the Dark emphasises the 
mysteries and horrors of Moria. Ghâsh! heralds the approach 
of the Balrog.
DIRE PORTENTS
FEAT DIE 
ROLL REVELATION EFFECT
Smoke in the Air The Company smells smoke; hot air laden with fine ash rises up from below. They have delved 
too deep, and awakened a horror in the mines. The next Revelation episode comes from the 
Ghâsh!  Table, but the roll is Favoured .
1 Cave- in The ceiling creaks, stone pillars topple, and some of the Player- heroes risk being buried in 
debris. Everyone must roll AWARENESS ; those who fail suffer a severe loss of Endurance.
2 The Way is Shut The Company comes to a door that is sealed from the other side, and there is no way through. 
If on a Journey, they must add 1 day to their journey and suffer an additional Journey event. 
If exploring, they cannot enter the Landmark through the most obvious route. If foes are near, 
they cannot fly.
3 Dreadful Dreams All Player- heroes are beset by nightmares. They gain 1 point of Shadow (Dread) and 1 point of 
Fatigue. Dwarves in particular may dream of the fall of Moria.
4 Misfortune One Player- hero chosen at random loses a weapon or useful item (player’s choice).
5 Crack in the Floor A chasm yawns before the Company, forcing them to climb or leap across the abyss (an ATH -
LETICS  roll).
6 Horror of Death The Company comes across a corpse — maybe an ancient skeleton of some fallen Dwarf, or the 
fresh remnants of an escaped prisoner or rival explorer. They gain 2 points of Shadow (Dread).
7 Lure of the Abyss One of the Company is tempted by their Flaws. A Grasping hero might glimpse gold in a 
crack; an Idle one might feel compelled to throw a stone down a well; a Spiteful one might 
start an argument.
8 Goblin- feet Goblins follow the Player- heroes. These malicious wretches do not attack — they know they 
cannot defeat a band of well- armed intruders — but they follow and watch. Reduce the Hunt 
Threshold by 4 until the Company deals with them, and the next Revelation comes from the 
Orc Assault  table.
9 Eyes in the Dark The Player- heroes glimpse eyes watching them from the darkness. For the rest of this expedi -
tion into Moria, all Eye Awareness gains are doubled .
10 Sudden Darkness A sudden gust of wind or bad air extinguishes the Company’s torches. Unless they have magi -
cal light, or are close to the surface, they are plunged into darkness.
A Light in the Dark The Company comes to a chamber where natural light shines from outside. The bright sun dis -
mays Orcs and other creatures of darkness.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 45 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
41
ORC ASSAULT
FEAT DIE 
ROLL DOOM EFFECT
Smoke in the Air The Company smells smoke; hot air laden with fine ash rises up from below. They have delved too 
deep, and awakened a horror in the mines. The next Revelation comes from the  Ghâsh! table.
1 Infamous Orc The Company encounters a group of Orcs escorting one of the Chiefs of Moria. Roll on the 
Moria Orc- chiefs table on page 15  (reroll if the Target is dead or otherwise nonsensical).
2 They Have 
a Cave-  troll
A host of Orcs (including one Cave-  troll Slinker) attacks the Company, aiming to pen them up 
in a dead- end passageway or chamber so they can be captured or slain.
3 Orc- slavers Orcs take the Company by surprise and one of them is captured for interrogation and enslave -
ment. The Orcs retreat to the stronghold of their faction (Malech’s Fortress, page 110 , the 
Temple of Udûn, page 161 , or the Mountain Galleries, page 122 ) and the Player- heroes 
must choose whether to leave their comrade to a grim fate, or embark on a perilous quest to 
rescue them.
4 Orc- stalkers Orcs follow the Company — not attacking yet, but trying to corral them into an unfavourable 
place, or waiting until the Company is more vulnerable. Unless the Player- heroes can trick or 
escape the Orcs, in the next battle they are Ambushed and fight as Moderately hindered.
5 Sudden Ambush! The Company is ambushed by Orcs. The AWARENESS  roll to avoid being caught by surprise 
loses (1d) .
6 Orc- sentries Orcs patrol the route ahead. The Company must sneak past or face a battle.
7 Roaming Cave-  troll A Great Cave-  troll wanders in at the worst possible moment — possibly disturbing the Com -
pany as they rest, or arriving to block their retreat.
8 Sabotage! The Goblins do some mischief that does not directly injure the Player- heroes, but is nonethe -
less damaging for that; they might spoil food, kidnap a pony, steal items, or lure the Company 
into an ambush or other peril.
9 Goblin- sneaks Goblins stalk the Company. The creatures do not attack immediately; instead, they follow the 
Player- heroes, creeping after them and tapping the walls to signal their position to other foes. 
Reduce the Hunt Threshold by 2 while the Goblins track the Company. The Company can rid 
themselves of these troublesome Goblins by sneaking away or hunting the wretches.
10 Goblin-  trap Goblins delight in explosions, traps and other malicious devices, and the Company run into 
such a booby-  trap. An AWARENESS , SCAN  or CRAFT  test might avert the peril; otherwise, a ran -
dom Player- hero suffers a grievous loss of Endurance by falling, fire, suffocation or poisoning, 
depending on circumstances.
Close Encounter The Company “nearly” encounters a foe, but by some unlikely mischance, manages to avoid 
a fight. Maybe they see the enemy coming and can hide, or a door happens to be locked and 
they hear the enemy on the far side. Roll again on this table to determine the peril the Com -
pany nearly encountered.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 46 =====

CHAPTER 3
42
TERRORS OF THE DARK
FEAT DIE 
ROLL DOOM EFFECT
Doom Approaches The heroes smell smoke in the air. The next Revelation comes from the Ghâsh!  table, and the 
roll is Ill- favoured.
1 Stalked by 
a   Nameless Thing
A Nameless Thing crawls out of the depths and pursues the Company. Unless they can throw it 
off the scent, it attacks during their next rest.
2 Nightmarish 
Delusions
One of the Player- heroes suffers from terrible delusions; they gain 2 points of Shadow (Sor -
cery). If they gain any Shadow, they temporarily believe the delusions and act accordingly.
3 Twisting Paths Tunnels and corridors twist back on themselves, forcing the company to backtrack. If on a 
Journey, they must add 1 day to their journey and suffer an additional Journey event, losing 
(1d)  on the Skill roll to resolve the event.
4 Orc- horns Orcs are close at hand! Reduce the Hunt Threshold by 4, and the next Revelation episode 
comes from the Orc Assault table.
5 Unseen Foe Something  is following the Player- heroes. Reduce the Hunt Threshold by 2 until they deal with 
this unseen foe — assuming this enemy is one that can be driven away with sword or fire.
6 Missing Companion One of the Player- heroes, or a companion like a pony or a Lore master character, wanders off 
and becomes lost (Lore master’s choice).
7 Crumbling Masonry The way ahead becomes unusually perilous because this section of Moria is ruined; it might 
be flooded, prone to collapse, blocked by debris, or otherwise decayed. Passing through this 
section is a Skill Endeavour with a Resistance of 6.
8 Sight of Horror The Company comes upon something horribly demoralising — a desecrated monument, 
butchered corpses, or some other horror. They gain 2 points of Shadow (Dread).
9 The Endless Dark The path ahead is wearisome and supplies run low. The Company’s food supply is depleted, 
and each Player- hero gains 2 Fatigue.
10 Led Astray Clues — or a friendly character — seem to guide the Player- heroes towards their destination, 
but they are actually led into a trap.
A Moment of Truth The Company discover a clue or another secret pointing towards a Hidden Landmark. They 
might find a book, a carved message, a lost key, or have a prophetic dream.
GHÂSH!
FEAT DIE 
ROLL DOOM EFFECT
Durin’s Bane! The Company encounter Durin’s Bane! The Balrog engages them in combat. Fleeing is the best 
and likely the only option. One Player- hero can always stay behind and fight the Foe beyond 
any of them so the rest (of the fools…) can fly.
1 Nameless Horror The Player- heroes encounter a Nameless Thing that has slithered up from the depths.
2 Distant Flames The Player- heroes encounter Durin’s Bane, but at a distance — maybe they see the Balrog at 
the far end of a long tunnel or across the width of a great hall. They can flee without having to 
fight the enemy with a successful AWARENESS  roll.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 47 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
43
FEAT DIE 
ROLL DOOM EFFECT
3 A Spell of Closing The Balrog seals a door or other portal behind the Company, trapping them. Clearly, sorcery 
is at work — there is no natural reason why the door should be so immovable. But without 
counter- magic to match, they cannot open the door. They cannot get out.
4 Distant Roar The Company hears the roaring of the Balrog, like a great hiss of flame. They gain 3 points of 
Shadow (Dread).
5 Power of Udûn! The Balrog puts forth its power into its servants. All foes in the next combat gain a Moderate 
advantage, as well as the Flame of Udûn  Fell Ability (see page 60).
6 The Shadow 
Deepens
The shadows become almost solid, impeding action. All Player- heroes lose (1d)  on any roll 
that may suffer from visual impairment.
7 Choking Fumes Foul fumes rise from the depths. Unless the Player- heroes climb to cleaner air quickly, they 
suffer a severe loss of Endurance from suffocation.
8 Unreasoning Terror Crippling, unreasoning, unnamable terror seizes all members of the Company. All gain 2 
points of Shadow (Dread). Those who fail the test feel the urge to flee. Those who succeeded 
may attempt an ENHEARTEN  roll to reassure their comrades before the Company is scattered.
9 Leaping Flames Flames explode from a nearby crack or cave mouth. Anyone trying to pass through the flames 
risks a severe loss of Endurance from fire.
10 Malicious Thought Durin’s Bane bends its thoughts upon the intruders. All heroes gain 2 points of Shadow 
( Sorcery). Those who fail find themselves unconsciously acting in ways that serve the Balrog’s 
intentions. The Guide might inadvertently lead the Company into The Deeps; the Scout might 
get lost and wander off.
A Foresight Is 
on Me
A Player- hero glimpses Durin’s Bane in the darkness, or in their dreams. They know that the 
Balrog is nearby, and that a quick retreat is advisable. Like Dáin, they have seen the shadow 
that waits in the deep…
MORIA-MADNESS
A curious condition afflicts Dwarves (and only Dwarves) 
who travel in Moria. This place is sacred; the memory of 
Moria burns in the heart of every Dwarf. They dream of 
the mountains and the city beneath. The anticipation of 
walking in the halls of Durin, the wonder at being in such 
a city of marvels, and the heart- rending sight of their 
ancestral realms defiled is enough to drive some into 
madness. Those afflicted by Moria- madness convince 
themselves that the city is as it once was — they look at 
a ruin consumed by the Shadow and they see a glorious 
hall lit by blazing lamps. They look at a broken statue 
and see a perfect work of art; they mistake pebbles for 
gemstones, or tin for Mithril.
A Dwarf- hero who suffers a Bout of Madness in Moria 
may, if the Player wishes, suffer from Moria- madness 
instead of the usual condition associated with their 
Shadow Path.
MORIA-MADNESS
BOUT OF MADNESS FLAW
#1 Distracted
#2 Mistrustful
#3 Blinded
#4 Jealous
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 48 =====

CHAPTER 3
44
Random Chamber Generator
‘I have no memory of this place at all!’ said Gandalf, standing uncertainly under the arch.
Moria is far too large — and far too ruined and empty for 
every room to be reasonably detailed. Instead, as the Com -
pany explores its halls, use the tables below to generate inspi-
ration for random rooms.
The Chamber Type table, obviously, gives ideas for the type 
of room encountered. Modify it by the original Appearance of 
the room and its current Condition. Optionally, roll to deter-
mine the Challenge the room poses.
ORC- NEST:  This room was not built by the Dwarves — it is 
a den of Orcs.
UTILITY:  Moria contained endless small passageways 
and tunnels off the main thoroughfares. Some of 
these held aqueducts for carrying fresh water 
down from the heights; others were air ducts, 
or sewers. Still others were the equivalent of 
servants’ hallways or backstreets. Those who 
knew Khazad- dûm well could move from one 
end of the city to the other unseen.
Goblins explored most of these little 
byways, but some remain undiscovered to this 
day.
STOREROOM:  Vast were the cellars and store -
houses of Moria. Many of these storerooms were 
given over to food; the Dwarves had a terrible fear of 
rats eating their winter supplies, so they built cunning 
mousetraps and bred small dogs to guard their supplies. 
The descendants of these dogs, grown blind and hairless, 
still run wild in the dark.
SMALL DWELLING:  A house for a single Dwarf. Dwarven 
families were rare — Dwarven women numbered no more 
than a third of the population, and not every Dwarf wished 
to marry, so many Dwarves lived alone. Small dwellings like 
these typically centred around a workroom, work being the 
centre of a Dwarf’s life, with the bedroom and other neces-
sities off to the side. Some clusters of dwellings opened 
onto a courtyard or shared space, often with a large oven 
for communal cooking.
CHAMBER TYPE TABLE
FEAT DIE ROLL CHAMBER TYPE
Orc- nest
1 Utility
2 Storeroom
3 Small Dwelling
4 Stairs
5 Well or Watercourse
6 Guard Post or Armoury
7 Forge
8 Workshop
9 Large Dwelling
10 Civic Building
Great Hall
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 49 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
45
STAIRS:  As Khazad- dûm extended over many levels, the 
Dwarves built great stone concourses — and, in later years, 
mechanical elevators powered by waterwheels or by hauling 
on ropes. The larger stairs in the city were also public audi -
toria where the affairs of the day were discussed.
WELL OR WATERCOURSE:  Wells drew water from both natu-
ral and Dwarf- built reservoirs. The neglect and malice of the 
Goblins means that few of the artificial reservoirs survive, and 
all wells within Moria are suspect.
GUARD POST OR ARMOURY:  Especially in its latter years, 
Moria was a fortress. While the gates of Khazad- dûm were 
never breached in any siege, the city was endangered by Gob-
lin sappers, who would dig tunnels from the Goblin- caves of 
the Misty Mountains to break into the mines.
FORGE:  The forges of Moria were wonders indeed — they 
were clustered around titanic chimneys and flues, so that 
many fires could share the same air vents. At first, the forges 
were fired with wood, and the hungry axes of the Dwarves 
devoured the forests of Dimrill Dale. Later, the deep forges 
were dug, fuelled by coal. The Goblins continued to use some 
of the deep forges, but centuries of accumulated debris have 
blocked the air shafts, so the lower levels are choked with 
soot and smoke.
WORKSHOP:  The Dwarves wrought wonders, especially in the 
days of their friendship with the Elves of Hollin. They were 
chiefly known for their mastery of smithing and metallurgy, 
but there were all manner of crafts — the Dwarves may love 
metal and stone, but also they carve wood and weave cloth 
with equal diligence.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 50 =====

CHAPTER 3
46
LARGE DWELLING:  Extended Dwarven families lived in man-
sions, where several generations would live in the same com-
plex. A great door connected each dwelling with the rest of 
the city, and this door carried the sigil of the clan.
CIVIC BUILDING:  Moria was a place of scholarship and cul -
ture, and the city had many libraries, archives, galleries and 
meeting- halls. The Dwarves were exacting historians and aca-
demics — and they delighted in bureaucracy too, considering 
ink as fine a thing to work with as gold or iron. Many of the 
civic buildings of the Dwarrowdelf, alas, burned when the city 
fell, and much knowledge was lost.
GREAT HALL:  The Halls where the Dwarves gathered. They 
were markets and feast- halls, debating chambers and places 
of prayer; the mansions of princes and chieftains. It was in 
the Halls that the Dwarves housed their most cherished works, 
and where they glorified their heroes and ancestors.
HELD BY FOES:  This chamber is occupied by living adver -
saries — Orcs, Trolls or other foul creatures, rival treasure 
hunters, or something more dangerous. Draw your weapons 
and prepare to fight!
BLOCKED:  The chamber is inaccessible, at least by this route. 
The door may be shut and barred from the inside, or the 
access corridor is blocked by fallen rocks, or some other bar-
rier stops the Company from proceeding. Many of the doors 
in Moria were magical, and Dwarf- doors cannot be found 
unless you know what you are looking for. It may be possible 
to find another way in.
SUSPICIOUSLY INTACT:  The chamber is remarkably intact 
— is something guarding it? Is there some hidden peril, like 
poisonous gas, that keeps intruders out?
FLOODED:  The chamber is flooded with water. In the upper 
levels, it is likely that some broken pipe or aqueduct now 
rushes through the chamber before cascading into the depths; 
in the Deeps, the chamber may be flooded with standing 
water.
UTTERLY RUINED:  The ceiling has fallen in, the chamber 
has collapsed, or it is so smashed as to be unrecognisable. 
Nothing can be salvaged here.
GOBLIN- GNAWED:  Goblins are like woodworms — they rid -
dle the place with tunnels and hidey- holes. Some of these 
little tunnels may lead to the Goblin- caves of the mountains; 
others might conceal a host of Goblins lurking in the dark.
SHATTERED BY EARTHQUAKE:  The mountains grumble and 
stir in their sleep, especially violent Caradhras. Chasms have 
opened in the floor of those chambers damaged but not 
destroyed by tremors; in some cases, these chasms may lead 
down to lower levels.
BURNT:  Terrible fires raged through much of the city when 
Durin’s Bane arose; other, lesser fires swept through other 
parts of Moria when the Goblins meddled with the Dwarven 
forges. The stone walls of burnt chambers may be mostly 
intact, but little else remains.
DESPOILED:  Goblins are full of malice, and love to destroy 
and to deface beautiful things. This chamber is largely intact, 
but everything in it has been deliberately broken or made 
ugly — or rigged with traps.
CONDITION TABLE
FEAT DIE ROLL CONDITION
Held by foes
1 Blocked
2 Suspiciously intact
3 Flooded
4 Utterly ruined
5 Goblin- gnawed
6 Shattered by earthquake
7 Burnt
8 Despoiled
9 Ruined by the passage 
of time
10 Mostly intact
A safe place to rest
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 51 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
47
RUINED BY THE PASSAGE OF TIME:  The chamber is exposed 
to wind or water, or has been filled with the slow accumulation 
of dust and snow. Maybe a thousand generations of spiders 
nest here. In any case, the chamber has succumbed to rot 
and few of its original fittings remain.
MOSTLY INTACT:  The chamber is dark and cold, but oth -
erwise remarkably well- preserved. The Player- heroes might 
catch a brief glimpse of how this place once looked, and be 
cheered by the thought that the Orcs cannot conquer forever!
A PLACE TO REST:  The chamber feels… well, if not safe, then 
at least defensible. As long as no fool of a Took throws any -
thing down a well, the Company might be able to rest here 
for a few hours without being discovered.
SHUNNED:  For some reason, this chamber was shunned by 
the Dwarves. Perhaps they sealed or even bricked up the 
doors, and carved runes of warning upon the lintel. Peril or 
darkness lingers here.
UNFINISHED:  The chamber was in the process of being con-
structed or repaired when the city fell, and the job remains 
unfinished. Scaffolding like the skeleton of some beast looms 
out of the darkness, and the tools of the builders lie where 
they were left. Any Dwarf in the Company feels the prickling 
urge to get the job finished.
AUSTERE:  The chamber is bare of all decoration — or per -
haps any ornament was wiped away by the ravages of time. 
Little information can be gleaned from the bare stone walls.
ANCIENT:  Chambers such as this one were built early in the 
history of Moria, perhaps all the way back in Durin’s day. The 
stonecraft is marvellous; the style simple but well executed.
SIMPLE:  An unremarkable chamber, little more than func -
tional. No Lord or Dwarf of note ever dwelt here; nor were 
great deeds performed in it.
HEROIC:  The room is decorated in a heroic style — likely 
with statues of Dwarven heroes of old, or carvings of battles. 
There may be places on the walls where weapons and armour 
were mounted long ago.
HOMELY:  The chamber was built for comfort, not grandeur. 
It is low- ceilinged, with the hearth close at hand.
RICHLY DECORATED:  Even the rot and ruin of a thousand 
years of neglect and occupation cannot erase the astounding 
artistry of this chamber. Every surface was decorated in some 
fashion — carved to resemble fabulous creatures, gilded or 
girded in expensive stone. This was a place of prestige and 
grandeur; if there are still treasures to be found in Moria, 
then surely they are nearby.
ELVEN:  This chamber was built when the Dwarves of Moria 
were friends with the Elves of Hollin, and much evil must 
befall a place before it wholly forgets the Elves, if once they 
dwelt there. Perhaps there are living plants here, or lamps 
of crystal, or the echo of forgotten songs — or a lingering 
touch of magic.
FORTIFIED:  This chamber was built in the last days of Moria, 
when the Dwarves feared attack from without. The walls are 
especially thick, the doors reinforced to withstand assault, 
everything made to hold out against Orcs or Dragons or other 
servants of the Enemy.
APPEARANCE TABLE
FEAT DIE ROLL ROOM TYPE
Shunned
1 Unfinished
2 Austere
3 Ancient
4 Simple
5 Heroic
6 Homely
7 Richly decorated
8 Elven
9 Fortified
10 Natural
Enchanted
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 52 =====

CHAPTER 3
48
NATURAL:  Not a chamber, but a cavern or other natural open-
ing in the rock, adapted by the Dwarves.
ENCHANTED:  Roll again, but this chamber has some Dwarf- 
magic in it. Perhaps there are fragments of spells worked into 
the stone, or runes of power upon the door.
COMBAT:  The Company faces an immediate peril — a foul 
creature, an ambush, a hazard. There is no way of avoiding 
this peril: they must defeat the enemy in order to survive.
NONE (DESOLATION):  Not every room demands dice- rolling, 
and not every room hides some secret. This chamber is empty 
and long-  abandoned. Emphasising the desolation of the 
ruined city makes other encounters more memorable.
ATHLETICS:  Part of this chamber has collapsed or been 
blocked by debris; to pass through the chamber, the Com -
pany must climb or leap over the obstacles; failure risks injury.
BATTLE:  Enemies are closing in, and the Player- heroes must 
make a choice whether to lie in ambush, fortify their position 
— by barring the access to the chamber for example — or 
leave in haste. A successful roll of BATTLE  can help them in 
adjudicating the situation.
ENHEARTEN:  Something in the chamber reminds the Com-
pany of the current state of the once- great city of the Dwarves, 
filling the Player- heroes with a sense of hopelessness. A suc -
cessful roll of ENHEARTEN  is required to raise their spirits 
— otherwise, everyone in the Company is considered to be 
Ill- favoured on their next roll.
HEALING:  The chamber is filled by invisible noxious fumes 
that causes the Player- heroes to cough incessantly, and their 
eyes to water. A HEALING  roll allows them to continue their 
exploration.
HUNTING:  Foes have passed this way recently; a HUNTING  
roll permits the Company to determine which way they went, 
and if they are still close at hand. Failure raises the Eye Aware-
ness Level by 1.
LORE:  This chamber was once of significance, but only the 
learned recall its secrets. A successful roll of LORE  is required 
to understand the importance of the place.
RIDDLE:  The chamber is in the middle of a complicated maze 
of multiple passages and twisting corridors. A successful roll 
of RIDDLE  points the Company towards the right direction.
STEALTH:  The chamber or the passages opening from it seem 
to intensify all sounds. If the Player- heroes fail at a STEALTH  
roll, they make a terrible noise (see Drums in the Deep , on 
page 39).
NONE (FORESHADOWING):  There is no immediate danger, 
but the chamber contains some inkling or affords a glimpse of 
impending doom. Perhaps the chamber has a balcony looking 
down at the caves outside, and the Company glimpses shad -
owy figures creeping through the gloom; a desiccated corpse 
hints at a nearby trap; a secret door lets a burglar eavesdrop 
on two Orcs talking about what the “Boss” has planned for 
the intruders.
TOKEN OF HOPE:  Something in the chamber inspires the 
Company to believe that their quest will not be in vain. Maybe 
daylight breaks through a distant sky- shaft, or one of the 
Dwarven Player- heroes spots the ancient sigil of their clan 
carved above a doorway, or maybe there is just the glint of a 
gold jewel amid the rubble.
CHALLENGE TABLE
FEAT DIE ROLL CHALLENGE
Combat
1 None (Desolation)
2 Athletics
3 Battle
4 Enhearten
5 Healing
6 Hunting
7 Lore
8 Riddle
9 Stealth
10 None (Foreshadowing)
Token of hope
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 53 =====

JOURNEYS IN THE DARK
49
Random Orc-band Generator
“There are Orcs, very many of them,’ he said. ‘And some are large and evil: 
black Uruks of Mordor. For the moment they are hanging back, but there is 
something else there. A great cave- troll, I think, or more than one.”
To randomly generate a band of Orcs roaming into Moria, roll 
the Feat- die once to determine the leader, and 1 Success die 
per Player- hero. Compare each die roll individually on the 
tables below, and add up the foes encountered to determine 
the full extent of the Orc- band encountered.
FEAT DIE TABLE
FEAT DIE 
ROLL FOE
A named Orc leader, a Great Orc Chief, or a 
Great Cave-  troll
1–2 Cave- troll Slinker
3–5 Great Orc Bodyguard
 6–10 Orc- chieftain
Orc- chieftain, and the enemies are sleeping, 
feasting, distracted, or already engaged in 
some task — the Company can take them by 
surprise.
SUCCESS DIE TABLE
SUCCESS 
DIE ROLL FOE
1 1 Great Orc Bodyguard
2 1 Orc Guard and 1 Goblin Archer
3 2 Orc Soldiers
4 1 Orc Guard
5 1 Orc Soldier
6 1 Goblin Archer
EXAMPLE:
A Company of four Player- heroes wandering in Moria 
encounter a pack of Orcs. Rolling, the Lore master gets 2, 
3, 6 and 6 on the Success Dice, and an 8 on the Feat die. 
That results in an encounter with: 3 Goblin Archers, 2 Orc 
Soldiers, 1 Orc Guard, led by an Orc- chieftain.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 54 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 55 =====

CHAPTER 4
FELL FOES
‘There are older and fouler things than Orcs 
in the deep places of the world.’
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 56 =====

CHAPTER 4
52
he city of Khazad- dûm may appear empty of life to 
whoever passes through its gates, as its roads are 
silent as those leading to the houses of the dead. 
But what fills its remote chambers and passages is 
not mere darkness. Baleful fires light the deepest halls, and 
the sound of passing feet echoes across invisible passages. 
There’s more than just Orcs in Moria…
This chapter presents a selection of adversaries, from the 
different factions of Orcs who made Moria their warren, to 
the unfortunate Dwarves who survived the coming of Durin’s 
Bane and other horrors. And of course, the Balrog of Moria 
itself is described here in its full, terrible might.
Orcs
Apparently the members of two or three tribes were present,  
and they could not understand one another’s orc- speech…
Despite their losses at the Battle of Dimrill Dale and the 
Battle of Five Armies, there are a great many Orcs in Moria. 
The fortress is one of their most valued holdings — partly 
for its sheer size and strength, partly for the resources 
of its mines, but also because Orcs hold grudges just as 
strongly as any Dwarf. They will not give up Khazad- dûm 
without a fight.
The Orcs of Moria are divided into three factions — or 
rather, four. Most Orcs in Moria do not have a deep- seated 
allegiance, and simply obey whichever chieftain seems stron-
gest, or whose whip bites hardest.
Just like most Orcs, all Orcish dwellers of Moria suffer 
from the Hate Sunlight Fell Ability: they lose 1 Hate 
for each round they spend in the full light of the sun.
ORCS BY LOCATION
The three major Orc- factions hold different parts of 
Moria, and skirmish over territory. Explorers in Moria 
may spot different Orc- signs marking the ever- shifting 
borders within the ruined city, and may even be able to 
take advantage of disputes and rivalries among the Orcs.
If the Company encounters Orcs, use their current 
location as a guide for the faction they likely meet. This 
is not prescriptive, and the Company could encounter a 
different Orc- faction: raiders, scouts, or on some other 
mission.
 ♦ OLD MORIA, THE DWARROWDELF, THE ROAD, 
 DIMRILL DALE:  Orcs of Moria
 ♦ THE MOUNTAINS OF MORIA:  Orcs of Mordor
 ♦ THE DEEPS, THE MINES:  Orcs of Udûn
 ♦ WEST MORIA:  Contested.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 57 =====

FELL FOES
53
Orcs of Moria
These are the most numerous of the Orcs in Moria. The 
Moria- orcs remember the bitter defeat at the Battle of the Five 
Armies, and see Moria as a fortress where they can hide from 
the hated sun and grow strong again, until the time comes 
to take revenge on the Free Peoples. They call Gorgol son of 
Bolg their warlord. Gorgol dwells to the north, under Mount 
Gundabad, but messengers regularly pass south by secret tun-
nels and hidden ways, bringing orders to Gorgol’s lieutenant 
in Moria, Malech One- eye (see page 114).
At the centre of Malech’s realm is his fortress in the heart 
of the Dwarrowdelf ( page 110), but his forces are scattered 
all over the city, in small warrens and warbands. Malech has 
a host of swift- footed, soft- shoed Goblins who carry messages 
to his scattered Captains; when intruders are sighted, drums 
are used to muster the host of Moria. He deliberately keeps 
his forces divided most of the time, and sometimes even sends 
his Orcs on doomed missions to eliminate some rival. Cruel 
games and hollow malice are common among these Orcs.
Each smaller warband has its own banner or sigil, but 
they also bear the sign of Malech’s master Gorgol — the sev -
ered head of a bear.
Moria- orcs are a variant of the Orcs of the North (see 
page 149 of The One Ring), with the Denizen of the Dark 
Fell Ability in addition to their other abilities.
In many cases it is possible to find Orc Drummers among the 
Moria- orcs. These Orcs have the same stats as Orc Soldiers, 
with the following Fell Ability:
Drums in the Deep. Instead of attacking, spend 1 Hate 
to increase the Eye Awareness of the Company by 3.
Beyond the fire he saw swarming black figures: there seemed to be 
hundreds of orcs. They brandished spears and scimitars which shone 
red as blood in the firelight. “Doom, doom rolled the drum- beats, 
growing louder and louder, doom, doom.
MORIA-ORC STRONGHOLDS
Malech’s Fortress, formerly the Palace of Stairs, is in the 
Dwarrow delf (see page 96). Malech’s lieutenants control 
the East-gate (page 81), the Twenty-first Hall (page 104), 
some of the Armouries (page 151), the Ledge of Woe (page 
158) and the Black Barbican (page 166).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 58 =====

CHAPTER 4
54
GORGOL, SON OF BOLG
In the aftermath of the Battle of Five Armies Gor -
gol was one of many contenders for the throne 
of Bolg, son of Azog. He was Bolg’s eldest son, 
and fought in the battle, but he was forced to flee 
into the Withered Heath when the Eagles came. 
It took him six years to return to Gundabad, but 
once there it didn’t take much for him to claim 
his father’s throne. To those few who immediately 
swore fealty to him he promised riches; those who 
opposed him, and they were many, fell under the 
scimitar of his grandfather Azog, a huge blade 
forged in Carn Dûm by dark smiths and bound 
with spells by the Witch- king himself.
Orcs of Udûn
The fire- cult of the Udûn- orcs are seen — rightly — as crazed 
fanatics by the other Orc clans. They serve and worship the 
Balrog, and make sacrificial offerings to Durin’s Bane, throw-
ing their victims into blazing balefires in the Deeps. Some 
among them are convinced they have been touched and 
changed by the Balrog, and made into vessels for a portion 
of the Bane’s corrupted power.
The Orcs of Udûn control the lower levels of the city, and 
parts of the mines; disputes over access to the Mithril veins 
are a source of constant strife between the Udûn- orcs and 
the rest. At present, Malech’s forces control the Wailing 
Stairs (page 159) giving them a route to the mines, 
but their control of the shaft is precarious.
The Udûn- orcs do not have a symbol, but 
many wear masks of leather and other unwhole-
some materials, and all of them stink of soot, 
ash and burnt flesh.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 59 =====

FELL FOES
55
The high priest of the Orcs of Udûn is Thu the Firespeaker. 
He has relatively few followers, but they have the favour of 
the Balrog, so they are dangerous indeed.
‘As I stood there I could hear orc- voices on the other side; at any 
moment I thought they would burst it open. I could not hear what 
was said; they seemed to be talking in their own hideous language. 
All I caught was ghâsh: that is “fire”.’
UDÛN-ORC STRONGHOLDS
The cult is centred on the Udûn- Temple (page 161) — and 
the Balrog’s Throne (page 170), far below.
Udûn-orc Fanatic
There isn’t an Udûn- orc who isn’t ready to die in battle or 
be sacrificed to the shadow and the flame. All fight relent -
lessly, never giving quarter or asking any.
UDÛN-  ORC FANATIC
Crazed, Tough
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Torch- staff 3 (4/14, Fiery Blow*)
* The attack burns the target, inflicting a severe 
Endurance loss from fire.
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Heartless.  The Udûn- orc Fanatic is not affected by 
the Intimidate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success 
is obtained.
Udûn-orc Fire-touched
Chosen by Thu himself from among those that the Balrog 
has warped, the Fire-  touched are so insanely aggressive 
that they make the Fanatics look like peaceful creatures.
UDÛN-  ORC FIRE-  TOUCHED
Frenzied, Fearsome
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
2
HATE
6
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Torch- staff 3 (4/14, Fiery Blow*)
* The attack burns the target, inflicting a severe 
Endurance loss from fire.
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Heartless.  The Udûn- orc Fire-  touched is not affected 
by the Intimidate Foe combat task, unless a Magical suc -
cess is obtained.
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts dam -
age to the Udûn- orc Fire-  touched that would cause it to 
go to zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. 
Then, if the creature is still alive, its Endurance score is 
set back at half its maximum rating.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 60 =====

CHAPTER 4
56
Orcs of Mordor
It has long been Sauron’s desire to conquer Moria. Even 
when he possessed the One Ring and was at the apex of his 
power, he was unable to break the defences of the Dwarves. 
He laid siege to the city during the War of the Elves and Sau-
ron in the Second Age, but victory eluded him. When he 
returned to Middle- earth after the destruction of Númenor, 
he was defeated by the Last Alliance before he could march 
on Khazad- dûm. Even in the Third Age, when he resided in 
Dol Guldur across the Vale of Anduin from Moria, it held out 
against him. Moria has only ever fallen from within.
Sauron declared his return to Mordor in 2951, and relit 
the fires of Mount Doom in 2954. Under cover of ash and 
smoke, he sent out Orcish messengers from Minas Morgul 
and the Towers of the Teeth. These Orcs crept north and 
west, sneaking through Mirkwood and through the Grey 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 61 =====

FELL FOES
57
Black Uruk
Large and evil Orcs of great strength, picked from among 
the fiercest to act as lieutenants, bodyguards or chosen 
warriors, sent to reinforce a colony of lesser Orcs.
BLACK URUK
Fierce, Strong
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
1
HATE
5
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Broad- bladed sword 3 (4/16, 
Pierce), Bow of Horn 3 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Horrible Strength.  If the Black Uruk 
Soldier scores a Piercing Blow with a close combat 
attack, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill- favoured.
Thick Armour.  Spend 1 Hate to gain (2d)  on a Protec -
tion roll.
Black Uruk Captain
Uruk Captains are hulking brutes with coal- black skin, clad 
in dark, metal armour, and wielding large, notched blades. 
They yell their orders with voices so fierce that not even 
Trolls can ignore them.
BLACK URUK CAPTAIN
Cruel, Hardened
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
1
HATE
6
PARRY
+3
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Broad- bladed Sword 3 (4/16, 
Pierce), Bow of Horn 3 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Horrible Strength.  If the Black Uruk 
Captain scores a Piercing Blow with a close combat 
attack, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill- favoured.
Yell of Triumph.  Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
allies in the fight.
Mountains, awakening the scattered servants of the Enemy. 
In 2960, the first of these messengers reached the East- gate 
of Moria, and met with the same welcome that greeted Thrór 
when he returned to Moria: they were beheaded and cast out.
Since then, the Mordor- orcs have returned, and with 
greater strength. They include in their number mighty Uruks, 
but also honey- tongued messengers and diplomats to beguile 
the Orcs who resist Sauron’s will. Capturing Moria is key to 
Sauron’s plans; after Gondor falls, he intends to destroy the 
Elven kingdoms. Lórien shall be caught between the hosts 
of Dol Guldur and Moria — and if he can recruit the Balrog 
to his cause, so much the better. The first step, though, is 
breaking the strength of Malech One- eye.
The chief agent of Mordor in Moria is not an Orc, but a 
quisling Dwarf named Har ( page 122). He is accompanied 
by a band of dangerous Orcs led by the reaver Naglur (page 
127). The Mordor- orcs bear the sign of the Lidless Eye in 
battle, but conceal their allegiance at other times.
‘That is a very interesting remark’, sneered a voice, softer than the 
others but more evil. ‘I may have to report that.”
MORDOR-ORC STRONGHOLDS
The chief stronghold of the Mordor- orcs is the Mountain 
Galleries (page 122) above the city proper. From this attic, 
they climb down to infiltrate the city below.
Messenger of Lugbúrz
An emissary of the Shadow, the Messenger of Lugb úrz 
is always on an errand for the Eye, be it to spy on Men, 
Elves or Dwarves, or to rouse all creatures with evil intent 
in an area.
MESSENGER OF LUGBÚRZ
Cruel, Cunning
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Scimitar 3 (3/16),  
Jagged Knife 3 (2/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an 
attack, spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Yell of Triumph.  Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
allies in the fight.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 62 =====

CHAPTER 4
58
Dwarves
The mountain smoked beneath the moon; 
The dwarves, they heard the tramp of doom. 
They fled their hall to dying fall 
Beneath his feet, beneath the moon.
Not all the Dwarves escaped Moria. Some were trapped when 
the Balrog arose, caught in the lower mines and unable to 
reach the safety of the surface. These unfortunates were 
enslaved and tormented by Durin’s Bane and forced to 
labour in the Deeps; their children, born in fire and dark -
ness, have known nothing else but servitude all the days of 
their sorry lives.
Other Dwarves were added in later centuries by Goblin 
raiders, for the Goblins prize Dwarves for their smith- craft 
and strong backs. They force their Dwarven slaves to work in 
the forges and mines, far from the surface.
Slave Dwarves
Slave Dwarves suffer from a curious collective delusion — 
when the horrors of their lives grow unbearable, they imagine 
themselves back in Khazad- dûm as it once was, mistaking bro-
ken ruins for magnificent halls, and imagining crystal lamps 
driving away the darkness with blazing light.
‘...we have wrought the image of those mountains into many works 
of metal and of stone, and into many songs and tales. They stand 
tall in our dreams: Baraz, Zirak, Shathûr.’
Dwarven Thrall
The most crazed among the Slave Dwarves even fling 
themselves into battle for their Goblin tormentors. They 
are utterly lost in their visions, believing themselves to be 
fighting for the defence of Khazad-  dûm against some foe.
DWARVEN THRALL
Grim, Thrawn
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
1
RESOLVE
5
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Jagged Knife 3 (2/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Fierce.  Spend 1 Resolve to gain (1d)  and 
make the attack roll Favoured.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 63 =====

FELL FOES
59
Dwarven Haunts
The Doom of Elves is to be bound within the confines of the 
world until the world’s ending; should an Elf perish, their 
spirit retires to the Halls of Waiting, from whence they shall 
return again in time. The Doom of Men is to pass from the 
circles of the world when they die, never to be seen again. The 
Doom of the Dwarves, however, is a mystery even to the Wise. 
Some say that Dwarves, who were not part of the Music of the 
Holy Ones, are fated to return to the stone from which they 
were made, merging again with the substance of the world, 
while others hold that the Dwarves shall aid in the remaking 
of Arda after the end of all things.
Whatever the fate of the Dwarves may be, it is certain that 
Moria is haunted. Perhaps these are evil spirits in counterfeit 
of Dwarves, or maybe it’s the effect of Dwarven magic spells, 
or curses, placed as wards to guard their ancient home. These 
haunts are invisible to mortal eyes, although those who can 
perceive the other side can see them as shadows that are 
somehow heavy and substantial, like thick tar. The shadows 
cling to physical objects, making them more cumbersome and 
draining the will of the bearer. They may also inhabit rooms 
or whole buildings, shutting doors, snuffing out torches and 
holding exits shut.
If challenged by a Dwarf or someone else with sufficient 
authority or strength of spirit, the haunt can be compelled to 
manifest as a slimy shadow; in this form, it can be dispelled 
with a blazing torch or an enchanted weapon.
Dwarven Haunts prey on their victims by burdening them 
with greater Shadow; those who fall to despair usually develop 
an obsession with hoarding treasure or with completing some 
task left unfinished.
In game terms, when one or more Dwarven haunts 
are nearby, all Player- heroes gain 2 Shadow points 
(Sorcery). Those who fail the Shadow test or are Mis -
erable have their Load rating doubled until they leave 
the haunted area. Player- heroes involved in combat 
who succeed on the Shadow test must repeat it at 
the start of each round, until they fail or leave the 
haunted area.
He felt the certainty of evil ahead and of evil following…
The Balrog of Moria
What it was could not be seen: it was like a great shadow, in the middle of which was a dark form, 
of man- shape maybe, yet greater; and a power and terror seemed to be in it and to go before it.
The Balrogs are divine spirits, of the same order as the Wiz -
ards or Sauron himself; they followed Morgoth, the origi -
nal and greater Enemy, into evil and corruption. They were 
Morgoth’s chosen servants and warriors, serving him in the 
same fashion that the Ringwraiths serve Sauron. But unlike 
the Nine, whose chief weapons are terror and anguish, the 
Balrogs were mighty in war.
The Tale of the Balrog
When Eärendil the Mariner sailed to the Uttermost West and 
summoned the Host of Valinor to war, the Balrogs fought at 
the siege of Morgoth’s fortress at Thangorodrim. The Balrog 
who would be known as Durin’s Bane in later ages fled when 
the battle became hopeless, escaping the Eagles of the Elder 
King under cover of unnatural darkness. The creature hid 
itself in the deepest, darkest gulf it could find, in the tunnels 
dug by nameless things beneath the mountain Barazinbar.
The Balrogs were tools of Morgoth, and obeyed his will 
in all things. They had, it seems, little in the way of desire or 
ambition of their own. Had Morgoth commanded it, the Bal-
rog could at any moment have arisen and conquered Moria, 
or enslaved the Dwarves and forced them to turn Khazad-  
dûm into a new fortress of darkness, a new Angband for a 
new Age — but Morgoth had been cast into the void by the 
Valar, and could not call his servants. So the Balrog waited.
Above, great empires rose and fell, and the world was utterly 
changed. Six thousand years it waited, or slumbered, perhaps 
listening for a summons from its master that never came.
In Moria, the Dwarves delved ever deeper in search of 
Mithril, until they broke into the chamber containing the 
Balrog. In a single year it single- handedly brought low the 
kingdom of Khazad- dûm and the line of Durin, and cast 
the Dwarves out of Moria. After this spasm of slaughter, the 
Balrog returned to its place of hiding, and continued to 
bide its time.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 64 =====

CHAPTER 4
60
Durin’s Bane
The Balrog of Moria is a spirit of the Elder Days; it saw the 
world being made, and walked in the darkness before 
the sun ever rose or the stars were kindled. No mortal 
can hinder it. It can afford to wait until it is summoned 
once again to war.
DURIN’S BANE
Mighty, Terrible
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
12
ENDURANCE
150
MIGHT
3
HATE
12
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
5
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Flaming Sword 4 (8/24, Fiery 
Blow*), Whip of Many Thongs 4 (6/18, Seize), Crush 3 
(6/12, Break Shield)
* The attack burns the target, inflicting a grievous 
Endurance loss from fire.
FELL ABILITIES:  Deadly Wound.  Wounded targets make 
an Ill- favoured Feat die roll to determine the severity of 
their Injury.
Demon of Might. The Balrog is immune to Endurance 
loss and Wounds from all sources of injury except magical 
weapons, and can spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound from 
such weapons (unless they have been wrought for the Bane 
of the Enemy itself). When an attack inflicts damage to the 
Balrog that would cause it to go to zero Endurance, it causes 
a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if the Balrog is still alive, its 
Endurance score is set back at half its maximum rating.
Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are Favoured  
while in darkness.
Dreadful Spells.  When a Player- hero in sight spends 
Hope, spend 1 Hate to make the Player- hero gain 3 
Shadow points (Sorcery). The WISDOM  roll is Ill- favoured, 
and if the Player- hero fails it or is miserable, the Hope 
point is lost and all its effects cancelled.
Flame of Udûn.  When a Player- hero hits the Balrog 
with a close combat attack, the Player- hero suffers severe 
Endurance loss from fire damage. The Balrog cannot use 
this ability when immersed in water.
Great Leap.  Spend 1 Hate to attack any Player- hero, 
in any stance, including Rearward.
Heartless.  The Balrog is not affected by the Intimidate 
Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is obtained.
Horrible Strength.  If the Balrog scores a Piercing 
Blow, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill- favoured.
Thing of Terror.  At the start of the first round of the 
battle all Player- heroes in sight gain 3 Shadow points 
(Dread). The VALOUR  roll is Ill- favoured, and those who 
fail it or are miserable are daunted and cannot spend 
Hope for the rest of the fight.
Unanswered Questions
The Balrog is one of the most powerful entities in all of 
Middle- earth, of the same order as Sauron the Terrible or 
the greatest of the Elf- Lords and Ring- bearers — and yet, it 
leaves little mark on the tale of years, save the dreadful years 
of 1980–81 when it drove out the Dwarves from Khazad- dûm. 
What secret signs might hint at the Balrog’s purposes?
‘There are many evil and unfriendly things in the world that have 
little love for those who go on two legs, yet are not in league with 
Sauron, but have purposes of their own. Some have been in this 
world longer than he.’
WHAT DOES THE BALROG DESIRE?
It is possible that the Balrog has no will of its own, for it 
existed to serve Morgoth, and now it is only animated by blind, 
reactive hate — it will strike back at those who trespass in its 
domain, but has no impetus beyond that. But if you want a 
more active foe for your campaign then consider:
 ♦ THE DOOR INTO THE VOID:  The Balrog serves Mor-
goth, and seeks its former master like the Ring seeks 
to return to Sauron. It is said that the Great Enemy 
was thrust beyond the confines of the world — but if 
there is one door in the world, then might not another 
be made? Might the very foundations of the world be 
undermined if the Balrog digs deep enough?
 ♦ BIDING ITS TIME:  Perhaps, like Sauron, the Balrog 
intends to conquer Middle- earth — but is waiting for 
Sauron to try and fail first. Several times before, great 
hosts came out of the West to thwart the Shadow, but 
now Númenor is gone and Valinor has withdrawn. 
Maybe, the Balrog thinks, the West might muster one 
last effort to defeat Sauron — but after that, there will 
be nothing to stop the third and final Dark Lord from 
seizing Middle- earth.
 ♦ RING- SEEKER:  It is curious that the Balrog chose to 
remain in Moria — not that far from the Gladden 
Fields, and from Gollum’s lair in the Misty Mountains. 
Might the Balrog have joined the hunt for the Ring? 
Was the snowstorm on Caradhras that drove the Fel-
lowship into Moria Sauron’s doing — or the work of 
a power closer at hand? Why did the Watcher in the 
Water grab Frodo first of all the company?
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 65 =====

FELL FOES
61
WHAT IS THE CONNECTION BETWEEN 
THE BALROG AND SAURON?
Sauron certainly sensed the presence of the Balrog after it 
awoke, and may have learned of it even before that. He almost 
certainly did not sense the Balrog during the Second Age, oth-
erwise he would have awoken it himself. The Balrog hid deep 
enough that the 
Valar could not 
find it; the same pre-
cautions would have hid -
den it from the Lidless Eye until 
the Dwarves dug deep enough.
Both the Balrogs and Sauron were ser -
vants of the great Enemy, Morgoth. The Balrogs were 
Morgoth’s warriors and bodyguards; Sauron his apprentice 
and lieutenant. It is said that in the War of Wrath, Sauron sur-
rendered and begged the Valar for mercy; when they spared 
him, he crept away to plot anew, just as he did in Númenor 
many centuries later. Perhaps the Balrog resented its former 
comrade’s betrayal of Morgoth.
Another possibility — Sauron dared not call the Balrog 
to his side while he was disguised as the Necromancer of 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 66 =====

CHAPTER 4
62
Mirkwood. If the Necromancer had such a clear connection 
to Morgoth, the Wise would have quickly seen through Sau -
ron’s lies. (It should be noted that the Necromancer fled Dol 
Guldur in Year 2063 of the Third Age, less than a century 
after the Balrog awoke, suggesting Sauron was well aware 
of the danger of being revealed too soon). Perhaps Sauron 
intended to call the Balrog to Mordor, or at least use it in 
his war of conquest when the time was right. Just as slaying 
Smaug prevented Sauron from recruiting the Dragon and 
loosing dragonfire in Dale, perhaps Gandalf’s defeat of the 
Balrog saved Lothlórien from destruction.
A third option — Sauron knows of the Balrog, but fears 
it. Without the One Ring, Sauron is a mere shadow of his 
former self. Perhaps he fears that if he tried to command the 
Balrog, there would be a good chance it might master him 
instead. Evil turns on evil, and there can be only one Dark 
Lord in Middle- earth.
WHY IS MITHRIL FOUND ONLY IN MORIA?
Mithril is mentioned as occurring in only three places in all 
of Arda — in the Blessed Realm, on the island of Númenor, 
and in the depths of Moria. The Blessed Realm is beyond 
comprehension, but Númenor was dragged up from the 
deepest part of the ocean. Perhaps Mithril is found only in 
the uttermost depths, in places where Elves and Men were 
never meant to go. It is possible that the Balrog blasted 
a route down into those foundations of stone, and col -
lapsed the tunnels behind it — and, many centuries later, 
the Dwarves happened upon that same rough- hewn way. 
Mithril was discovered only in the Second Age, some seven 
centuries after the Balrog hid itself under the mountain, 
even though the Dwarves had been digging and mining in 
the Misty Mountains for many centuries prior. The fortune 
of Moria may also have contained its doom.
WAS THE BALROG IMPRISONED 
— AND IF SO, BY WHOM?
A footnote in the Red Book of Westmarch speculates that the 
Dwarves freed the Balrog from imprisonment instead of awak -
ening it. So, who imprisoned the Balrog? Might the creature 
have locked itself away to hide from the wrath of the Valar, 
and so it needed (or even called) the Dwarves to it? Or maybe 
the Balrog did not hide as cunningly as it thought, and it was 
pursued from the wreck of Angband by warriors of the West. 
Perhaps some spirit or High Elf chased the Balrog down, and 
sealed it away where no- one could find it in the depths. (It 
should be noted that Celeborn of Lórien intimated that the 
Elves knew an evil slept beneath Caradhras.)
Of course, there are other and stranger things in the 
world who hide great strength. The Old Forest, for example, 
stretched much further east in the Elder Days, and once Tom 
Bombadil went walking in the hills…
Alternate Banes
The revelation that Durin’s Bane is a Balrog is not going to 
impress anyone (unless, by some unlikely confluence of cir -
cumstances, you have found the one person in all the world 
who has read enough of Middle- earth lore to understand 
what a Balrog is and why encountering one is such a signifi -
cant event, but who has not read The Lord of the Rings…). The 
Player- heroes know there is a Balrog down in the depths of 
the Mines of Moria, and part of the fun of the campaign is 
pushing one’s luck, praying that this roll will not be the one 
that brings doom down upon the Company.
However, to surprise the Company, or at least undercut 
earned confidence, consider spreading doubt about the true 
nature of Durin’s Bane. The Bane might be:
 ♦ THE WITCH- KING OF ANGMAR:  The Kingdom of 
Angmar was defeated in 1975 at the Battle of Fornost; 
a few years later, he led the Nazgûl in the conquest of 
Minas Ithil. It is conceivable that he visited Moria on 
his way south and overthrew the Dwarf- kingdom. The 
Witch- king is not as physically mighty as a Balrog, but 
his power of terror would explain how the whole city 
was abandoned in such haste.
 ♦ A DRAGON:  Dragons like Smaug have always coveted 
the wealth of the Dwarves — and no Dwarf- hold was 
wealthier than Khazad- dûm. A Dragon — presumably 
a wingless beast of great age — might have crawled out 
of the mines to steal the gold and Mithril of the city.
 ♦ A HORROR FROM THE DEEPS:  Or perhaps the crea-
ture that brought ruin to the city was not a Dragon, but 
a nameless monster from the depths, one of the primor-
dial entities that gnawed the foundations of stone. The 
Dwarves delved too greedily and too deep, after all…
 ♦ A WEAPON:  Durin’s Bane might have been a partic-
ular weapon, a sword or axe or knife that slew the 
Dwarven king. A weapon passed down from Orc- chief 
to Orc- chief, a symbol of the Orcish triumph over 
the Dwarves, a symbol to rally the tribes of the Misty 
Mountains to new atrocities and conquests.
 ♦ BETRAYAL FROM WITHIN:  Alternatively, ‘Durin’s 
Bane’ might be a metaphor. Was Moria destroyed in 
civil war or revolt? Perhaps the exiled lords of Belegost 
and Nogrod, bitter about their reduced standing, 
turned on the King. Did the Dwarves blame the city’s 
fall on a mythical monster to reunite their folk, rather 
than admit that their jealousies and rivalries were to 
blame for the destruction of the city?
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 67 =====

FELL FOES
63
Other Foul Things
And there were murmured hints of creatures more terrible than all these, but they had no name.
In the long centuries after its fall, Khazad- dûm has attracted 
all sorts of living and unliving creatures. The entities 
described in the next sections are just examples of the hor -
rors that the Player- heroes may encounter when braving the 
long dark of Moria.
Ash-wraiths
Evil spirits conjured by the Orcs of Udûn, these wraiths man-
ifest as faintly man-  shaped clouds of whirling ash and hot 
sparks. Left unguided, they swiftly gutter out and dissipate. 
The Udûn- orcs attract the spirits to guard their temples, or 
muster great swarms of them when they march to battle.
It’s whispered in the slave- pits that creating an Ash- wraith 
requires a living sacrifice; the victim is hurled into the flames, 
their flesh is burned away, and all that remains is a tormented 
wraith. In truth, these spirits are called out of the Void, and 
never wore a hame of mortal flesh.
‘Ash! Ash and smoke blown away on the wind!’
Ash-wraith
Sparks from the flame of Udûn, Ash- wraiths are fearsome 
when encountered in great numbers.
ASH-  WRAITH
Fierce, Swift
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Fiery Touch 3 (4/14, Fiery Blow*)
* The attack burns the target, inflicting a severe 
Endurance loss from fire.
FELL ABILITIES:  Flame of Udûn. When a Player- hero hits 
the Ash- wraith with a close combat attack, the Player- hero 
suffers moderate Endurance loss from fire damage. The 
creature cannot use this ability when immersed in water.
Heartless.  The creature is not affected by the Intim -
idate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is 
obtained.
Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 68 =====

CHAPTER 4
64
Cave Bats
Bats of many kinds dwell in 
the Misty Mountains; they are mostly 
evil beasts, allied with the Goblins. 
Small long- eared bats nest in the air 
vents and upper halls of Moria; it may 
be possible to find concealed entrances 
into the underground city by searching 
the mountain slopes for the overgrown 
cave mouths that the bats emerge from 
at twilight. Great swarms of tiny bats swirl 
around the Dimrill Dale by night, hunt -
ing insects. These bats are not dangerous, 
although they do carry diseases and a bite from 
one can sicken even a mighty warrior.
More impressive are the Great Carrion Bats. 
When Moria fell, these bats invaded the empty halls 
and fed upon the corpses of slain Dwarves. The crea -
tures now favour rotten flesh above other meals; they 
accompany Goblin armies in expectation of a banquet, 
and some old Dwarves still speak in hushed tones of the 
awful nights after the Battle of Dimrill Dale, when they 
had to race the bats to ensure the bodies of their kinfolk 
were not despoiled and devoured.
…but the bat- cloud came, flying lower, over the shoulder of the Moun-
tain, and whirled above them shutting out the light and filling 
them with dread…
Great Carrion Bat
Despite their size and apparent strength, Great Carrion 
Bats favour attacking only weakened or exhausted prey.
GREAT CARRION BAT
Hungry, Swift
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
3
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
2
HATE
3
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Claws 3 (3/14, Seize),  
Fangs 3 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Craven.  When affected by the Intimidate 
Foe combat task, the creature also loses 1 Hate.
Hate Sunlight.  The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Ghastly Wings.  The creature can attack any Player-  
hero, in any combat stance, including Rearward.
Wind- like Speed.  All attack rolls against the creature 
are Ill- favoured.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 69 =====

FELL FOES
65
Marrow-eaters
Only a handful of wild tales speak of these crea -
tures; the Dwarves encountered them in the 
deepest portions of the Mines of Moria, far 
beneath Caradhras, and only in the last years 
before the catastrophic advent of Durin’s Bane. 
Perhaps the Orcs have met them in the interven-
ing centuries, but if they have, no tales have 
reached the surface world.
The Dwarves spoke of thin- limbed crea-
tures, human in size and shape, but with 
skin like a fish that glimmered with its own 
pale luminescence. They had great bulging 
eyes without an iris or pupil, and long sticky fin-
gers and long tongues for sucking fatty marrow from 
the bones of their victims. They wielded knives of polished 
obsidian, and never made the slightest sound, but smeared or 
secreted a glowing liquid on the rocks to draw strange sigils.
‘The River of Gondor will take care at least that no evil creature 
dishonours his bones.’
Marrow-eater
Tales insist that the Marrow- eaters have no skeletons them -
selves, and are able to squeeze through the smallest gap 
in the rock. Those same tales relate that Marrow- eaters like 
to capture prisoners and carry them away to their lairs in 
the depths, so that every scrap of skin, meat and marrow 
can be savoured…
MARROW-EATER
Lithe, Stealthy
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
30
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Obsidian Knife 3 (3/14, Pierce), 
Sticky Fingers 3 (1/10, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Hate Sunlight.  The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 70 =====

CHAPTER 4
66
Stone Toads
Huge toads may be found in the wet caves of Moria, like 
the Gardens of Thrym Thistlebeard ( page 96). They grow 
prodigiously large; some are big enough to swallow a Hobbit 
whole. Their skin secretes poisonous slime, but as the toad 
ages their hide becomes progressively tougher, until it is hard 
as stone, with the slime oozing out through narrow cracks.
The Dwarves of old prized these toads, because when 
a toad grows old enough, a gemstone forms upon its brow. 
These toadstones have magical properties, especially in the 
healing arts. Many ancient Dwarven talismans of good health 
contain toadstones.
I hope Gandalf will turn you into a spotted toad and fill the garden 
full of grass- snakes.
Stone Toad
Stone-  toads standing stock- still are almost indistinguish -
able from ordinary rocks. They are territorial critters, and 
will rapidly animate to attack those who disturb their 
underground pools.
STONE TOAD
Slow, Stealthy
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
40
MIGHT
2
RESOLVE
5
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Bite 3 (5/16, Pierce),  
Crush 3 (5/12, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Great Leap.  Spend 1 Resolve to attack 
any Player- hero, in any stance, including Rearward.
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts dam -
age to the Stone Toad that would cause it to go to zero 
Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if the 
creature is still alive, its Endurance score is set back at 
half its maximum rating.
Poison.  If an attack results in a Wound, the target is 
also poisoned (see page 134 of The One Ring ).
Thick Hide.  Spend 1 Resolve to gain (2d)  on a Pro -
tection roll.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 71 =====

FELL FOES
67
Tappers
Tales of Tappers are as old as the First Hall — and yet, in all 
that time, no Dwarf has ever laid eyes on a Tapper, and the 
nature of the entities remains a mystery. They may be spirits, 
or ghosts, or the product of goblin- mischief, or some sub-
terranean folk from the realms below. They are named 
for the sound they make, a distant hammering or tap -
ping on the stone that echoes through the under -
ground passageways. One Tapper can be distin -
guished from another by their rhythm, and each 
Tapper appears to rule over a particular portion 
of the underworld. (Tappers, by the by, are not 
unique to Moria; tales of tapping are told by 
miners in the mountains of Gondor.)
Tappers can be cruel or kindly towards 
travellers. There are many accounts of 
Tappers warning of impending cave- in, 
but there are even more tales of Tap -
pers luring unwary miners or explorers 
to their doom, or betraying the location 
of travellers to Goblins. Tappers are said 
to delight in suitable offerings of food 
and precious things; some Tappers love 
songs, tapping along in time to the music, 
but others despise anything that interrupts the 
slow rhythm of the tapping.
If a Tapper is well- disposed towards a Company, then 
those who follow the tapping gain (1d) on any AWARE-
NESS , EXPLORE , TRAVEL  or CRAFT  rolls made while 
travelling underground. If a Tapper dislikes a Company, 
then those who follow the tapping lose (1d) on the same 
rolls above, and their Eye Awareness increases by 1.
Then there came out of the depths faint knocks: tom- tap, tom- tap.
CAVE DOGS OF MORIA
Strange hairless dogs lurk in the depths of Moria. Their 
ancestors were guard dogs, turnspit- dogs, ratters, but 
now they are all one breed, one pack. They never bark, 
but instead make high- pitched yelps. While the dogs are 
no threat to a party of adventurers, they are opportunis -
tic scavengers — they might follow the heroes to eat any 
Goblin- carcasses left behind, or attack a lone wounded 
hero. The chief danger of the dogs, though, is that their 
blind snuffling and yelping may attract more Orcs.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 72 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 73 =====

CHAPTER 5CHAPTER 5
TTHHE MANSIONSE MANSIONS    
OF TOF THHE DWARVESE DWARVES
This thing all things devours: This thing all things devours: 
Birds, beasts, trees, flowers; Birds, beasts, trees, flowers; 
Gnaws iron, bites steel; Gnaws iron, bites steel; 
Grinds hard stones to meal; Grinds hard stones to meal; 
Slays king, ruins town, Slays king, ruins town, 
And beats high mountain down.And beats high mountain down.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 74 =====

CHAPTER 5
70
 
he Mines of Moria are vast and intricate, beyond 
the imagination of anyone who set foot in them 
after the Dwarves deserted the underground city.
This chapter describes in some detail the 
various districts of Khazad- dûm and the surrounding 
regions. The guide retraces Durin’s path, beginning with 
the Dimrill Dale in the east where he found Mirror mere 
and built his first hall, and then following the expansion 
of the city west.
The Delving  
of the Dwarves
‘Some spoke of Moria: the mighty works of our fathers  
that are called in our own tongue Khazad- dûm…’
Moria is vast and ancient. The first tentative carving of stone 
was made thousands of years ago, and the work continued 
up until Durin’s Bane awoke. The Dwarves, of course, esteem 
tradition and the ways of their forefathers, but they are also 
cunning and innovative. As the skill of the Dwarves grew — 
and especially after they discovered Mithril and had the friend-
ship of the Elves of Hollin — their ambition increased in lock-
step, and they built ever more wonderful palaces in the caves.
Dwarves cherish stone as a living thing, tending to it like 
Ents herd trees. The city follows the grain of the mountains, 
incorporating natural caves and folds of rock into its struc -
tures. Where the stone permitted regularity, the Dwarves built 
corridors so straight and level that the keenest instrument 
could find no deviation; elsewhere, the passages twist to fol -
low the courses of vanished rivers. Much of the city leaves the 
natural rock intact in places, a hallway giving way to a lightly 
worked cave, which in turn gives way to another hallway.
The older parts of the city are simple and austere, with 
low ceilings, sconces for candles or burning torches, and few 
statues. Durin marked the Mirror mere with a simple pillar of 
stone, and his followers emulated his restraint. As the wealth 
and number of the Dwarves grew, their art grew more com -
plex. They covered every inch of their new halls with runes, 
carvings, and bas- reliefs, and adorned these with gems and 
gilt. Much of the middle city is richly decorated — or was, 
before the Orcs defiled it. It was in this time, too, that the 
Dwarves turned to building larger halls and structures within 
the mountain; great works of engineering were accomplished 
in those years, as the city grew to house the refugees from 
Belegost and Nogrod.
The third major phase of Dwarven artistry was influenced 
greatly by the Elves of Hollin — in this era, the Dwarves 
learned secrets of light and crystal, and were taught to love 
nature and growing things. Smiths made blossoming flowers 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 75 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
71
of beaten gold; masons carved pillars like trees of stone, and 
glorious lamps blazed in the wide halls.
In the middle years of the Second Age, the Dwarves grew 
suspicious and fearful, for the power of Sauron was growing. 
This fear seeped into their work — the parts of Moria built 
after the Year 1600 or so of the Second Age are full of traps 
and secret ways, and favour defensive strength over beauty.
After the defeat of Sauron and the rise of Númenor as 
the great power, the Dwarves continued to turn inwards, pre-
ferring to replicate the works of old and focus on Dwarven 
custom rather than be influenced by outsiders. This dark 
phase ended after the War of the Last Alliance and the birth 
of the Third Age, when for a time it seemed that evil had 
been defeated in Middle- earth.
The latter portion of Moria’s history, then, was an age 
of trade and commerce with Men, when the road through 
Moria was a link between the North Kingdom and South 
Kingdom. As Arnor collapsed and Gondor dwindled, 
though, the Dwarves again turned inwards, believing that 
a new time of darkness was inevitable as the strength of 
Angmar grew. The Dwarves blamed the plague of 1636 on 
outsiders, causing them to further close Moria to strangers. 
The plague so diminished the already-  declining population 
of the city that many sections of the Dwarrow delf were for -
ever abandoned.
Levels and Deeps, 
Halls and Gates
All distances in Moria are reckoned from the East- gate on 
the First Level. Floors below the East- gate are referred to 
as ‘Deeps’ (hence, the Third Deep is three floors below the 
East- gate). Floors above the East- gate are called Levels (so, 
the Seventh Level is six floors above the East- gate).
The Halls are numbered in order of construction. The 
East- gate opens into the First Hall, where Durin first began to 
build. The next hall built was the Second Hall, and so forth. 
This means that the number of a hall does not necessarily 
imply anything about its location — the Sixteenth Hall and 
the Seventeenth Hall were both built around the same time, 
but are in completely different parts of the city.
Key passageways within the city are guarded by fortresses 
called Gates. The Dwarves built these Gates so that any invad-
ing force would be forced to besiege each Gate in turn to 
advance through the city, a defensive innovation copied in 
the fortresses of Minas Anor and Minas Ithil when they were 
built. The internal Gates were never tested in battle until 
Durin’s Bane arose, and they were unable to withstand the 
Balrog’s fury — although they did endure long enough for 
many Dwarves to flee to safety.
Wind and Water, 
Light and Food
Many great rivers and little streams are born in the Misty 
Mountains. The Dwarves dug channels and aqueducts 
through their caverns to direct and harness these waters. They 
drained flooded chambers, and set fast- flowing rivers to work 
turning mill- wheels. When Moria was at its height, the city 
was full of wells, fountains and drinking troughs, as well as 
storage tanks and cisterns — the waterworks of Khazad- dûm 
were a wonder indeed.
The Dwarves also dug shafts for air. The entrances to 
these shafts are mostly high in the mountains, and are located 
where the natural flow of the prevailing winds drives fresh 
air into the mouth of the passageway. In some places, huge 
mechanical fans pushed the air yet deeper into the mines, or 
huge fires were lit to cause the air to circulate. Other vents 
pulled smoke and fumes from the forges out of the deeps; 
when the foundries of Moria were working at full blast, the 
snows of the Misty Mountain turned black with soot.
For light, all the great halls and passageways of the city 
had enchanted lamps of crystal; smaller chambers had torches 
or blazing fires to illuminate them. In a few places, close to 
the surface, cunningly hidden windows let daylight in, and 
the Dwarves used polished mirrors to bring the light deeper 
into the mountain.
For food, Moria relied on farms in Dimrill Dale and in 
Hollin. Flocks of mountain sheep and goats grazed on the 
foothills of the Misty Mountains. The city was famed for its 
great storehouses, and for the Dwarves’ skill in preserving 
food, which kept Moria well stocked even when bad win -
ters made the mountains impassable. Moria’s population was 
never as numerous as the size of the city suggests, and busy 
Dwarves can forget to eat for days at a time.
Ways In and Out
The East- gate of Moria is famous (or infamous, after the foul 
treachery of Azog) and easy to find. The old Dwarf- roads may 
be lost beneath the grass, but their arrow- straight courses 
can still be followed, and all lead to Moria. The West- gate 
to Hollin is hidden, of course, but the Dwarves still recall 
its existence.
There were other, lesser doors both East and West, but 
most were sealed long ago. Some have been opened again; 
others are lost or destroyed (and even Dwarves cannot always 
find their secret doors again if they lose them). Explorers 
might also gain entrance via the air- shafts, natural caverns, 
Goblin- tunnels or other secret ways.
In short — there are many ways in, but only the East- gate 
is easy to find. Other routes must be discovered.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 76 =====

CHAPTER 5
72
ENTRANCES BY LANDMARK
LOCATION LANDMARK REGION NOTES
The Gates The East- gate of Moria Dimrill Dale The only known way into Moria
The Dimrill Door The Dimrill Stair Dimrill Dale Requires a secret key held by Mordor- orcs
The Side Door Mountain Galleries The Mountains of Moria Open, but watched by Mordor- orcs
Tarloch’s Barrow Tarloch’s Hall The Mountains of Moria Forgotten by all
The High Cistern Mountain Galleries The Mountains of Moria Less of an entrance, more of a deathtrap
The Secret Cleft Mountain Galleries The Mountains of Moria Leads to the Endless Stair
The Mountain Stair The Citadel of Barazinbar The Mountains of Moria Virtually inaccessible
The Doors of Durin West Moria West Moria Speak, friend, and enter!
The Under Warren Goblin Village The Deeps Connects Moria to Goblin Town
Thrym’s Cleft Caves of Thrym Thistle beard The Dwarrow  delf Discovered by Taentirith the Eagle
Landmarks of Renown
Khazad- dûm is a sacred place to the Dwarves, the ancestral 
hall of their people. Let the Men of Gondor count their lin -
eage back to the Kings of Old or even drowned Númenor — 
the Dwarrow delf is older still. Every Dwarf in Middle- earth 
is taught about the lost city of Moria, of the deeds of Durin 
and the works of their forefathers.
In game terms, this means that some of the Landmarks in 
this chapter are known by every Dwarf — tales of the Mirror -
mere or the Caves of Thrym Thistle beard have been told and 
retold for thousands of years. We refer to these as Famous 
landmarks. Any Dwarf, or any other Player- hero scoring a suc-
cessful LORE  roll, knows about these — and knows roughly 
where they lie in Moria.
On the other hand, some Landmarks are Obscure — they 
were never exactly secret, but after a thousand years they 
have mostly been forgotten. A Company exploring Moria may 
happen upon them by chance, but information about them 
can also be discovered by a Player- hero receiving a Rumour 
(see page 25). An example of this sort of Landmark is the 
Mountain Galleries ( page 122) — the Player- heroes might 
learn of these forgotten halls through Rumours, or they might 
follow the path up from the Redhorn Gate ( page 117) and 
come upon them that way.
Finally, other Landmarks are Hidden — their location 
or even their very existence was kept secret, or it was never 
known to the Dwarves in the first place, or they were made 
more recently. These Landmarks can only be discovered 
through adventuring, and then only if the Player- heroes find 
some clue pointing that way, or by the intervention of the 
Lore master.
Note that even a Famous Landmark may have secret 
aspects. Also, the current status of a Landmark can only be 
discovered through adventuring — the Palace of Stairs is an 
Obscure Landmark, a minor Dwarven palace according to 
the Annals. Nobody outside Moria knows that Malech One- 
eye uses the Palace as his lair.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 77 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
73
The Dimrill Dale
To the east the outflung arm of the mountains marched to a sudden end, 
and far lands could be descried beyond them, wide and vague. To the 
south the Misty Mountains receded endlessly as far as sight could reach… 
in places, there were ruined works of stone beside the path, and mounds 
of green topped with slender birches, or fir- trees sighing in the wind.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 78 =====

CHAPTER 5
74
 
zanulbizar, the Dwarves call it. Nanduhirion, to the 
Elves. Dimrill Dale, in the common tongue. It has 
many names, for this place was once a crossroads 
in Middle- earth.
The stony valley of the Dimrill Dale is empty 
now, but it was not always so. When Durin first came here, 
it was a thickly wooded valley, and he wandered among the 
trees until he found the cave mouth that he would make into 
Moria. In the years after Durin’s days, the Dale became part 
of the city. There were houses here, and fortifications, but 
also grand plazas, marketplaces and fairgrounds for visitors 
and traders from afar. A grand road ran through the Dale, 
past the town of Dwarrowhall and off to the crossings of the 
Anduin and the Dwarf- road that ran through Mirkwood (or 
Greenwood the Great as it was in those days).
The Dale was never especially fertile — herds of animals 
grazed here, once, and a few wild cattle and goats can still be 
found today. It was further down the mountain slopes, in the 
Nether Vales, where the Dwarves grew most of their food with 
the help of Men of the Anduin Vales. The Dale was a valuable 
source of timber, though of course the Dwarves never laid axe 
to the trees of Lothlórien (and there are other groves they never 
dared cut, on the shoulder of Redhorn above the Dimrill Stair).
In later years, war came to Dimrill Dale. First, there was 
the siege of Khazad- dûm during the War of the Elves and 
Sauron, when the forces of the Enemy laid siege to the city. 
The Gates of Moria never fell, but Sauron’s hosts tore down 
all that they could reach, and destroyed the surface buildings. 
The fortress of Dimrill Watch was rebuilt, but the Dwarves 
never again dwelt in the sunlight of the Dale, and grass grew 
amid the shattered flagstones of the plazas.
After the abandonment of Khazad- dûm, the Dale acquired 
an evil reputation. Men still came here to cross the moun -
tains by the Dimrill Stair or to search for treasure in the silent 
halls, but over the centuries they forgot who built the Stair, 
or that the black pit was ever anything but a place of horror. 
The Dwarves remembered, of course, and still came here on 
pilgrimage to the doors and to Mirror mere, until the growing 
number of Orcs made visits to the Dale perilous.
Then came the unforgivable insult, when the Orcs mur -
dered King Thrór and defiled his body. That cruel deed began 
the terrible War of the Dwarves and Orcs, which was fought 
all along the Misty Mountains, but ended here in the Battle 
of Azanulbizar. The Dwarves won, and Azog was slain, but the 
Dwarves dared not advance beyond the shadow of the Gate. 
They burned their dead and departed, leaving the Dimrill 
Dale empty once more.
Today, the Dimrill Dale is eerily empty of wildlife. There 
are some wild goats and sheep on the upper slopes, and large 
and sinister rats scurry through the rubble in the lower valley, 
but a traveller could cross the Dale and climb the Stair without 
seeing another living thing save the distant circling of birds.
Before the Battle of Five Armies, great packs of Wargs 
gathered here (though never within bow- shot of the border 
of Lórien!). Their numbers were diminished for a time, but 
in recent years the Wargs have returned. The beasts will not 
pursue travellers up the Dimrill Stair, but anyone following 
the old road up to the Gate risks being attacked.
Dimrill Dale is almost treeless — the last forests of the 
Dale, including the copse where Thorin Oakenshield won 
his name, were cut down to make funeral pyres — but there 
are a few ancient twisted trees on the slopes of Caradhras. 
These old thickets are dark and unwholesome, and the trees 
there are so deep- rooted in the frozen soil that the Dwarves 
could never dig them up.
The mountain wind howls in the crumbling stairs, and 
grass grows over the stones. This valley, which was once filled 
with song and the chatter of the marketplace, which was once 
filled with battle- shouts and the cries of the dying, is silent 
once more.
But still a crown of stars appears, in dark and windless 
Mirror mere.
Mocker Crawe
Mocker Crawe is the oldest and biggest of the crows who 
dwell in Dimrill Dale. Big enough to carry off a lamb (or 
snatch a baby from a Woodman’s crib), he has learned 
the speech of Men and Orcs. Crawe is a cunning monster 
— he pretends to be an honest messenger, carrying word 
between the Orc-  tribes of the mountains and Dol Guldur, 
THE CROWS OF DIMRILL DALE
Weeping, Nár fled down the Silverlode, but he 
looked back once and saw that Orcs had come 
from the gate and were hacking up the body and 
flinging the pieces to the black crows.
The crows of Dimrill Dale are hateful things. They 
nest in the dark thickets of Redhorn, and flap 
down to croak mournfully at intruders in the 
vale. Worse, they have a taste for Dwarf- flesh, 
and so have become spies and allies of the Orcs. 
The crows have learned a few words in the Black 
Speech, and warn the Orcs of approaching danger.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 79 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
75
and even flying as far as the Brown Lands to meet with 
messengers of Mordor, but he twists the messages to ben -
efit himself. He plucks secrets like eyeballs, and manipu -
lates events to his advantage. He sometimes even pretends 
to befriend Men, bringing word to the Woodmen to warn 
them of Orc attacks. When the Company enters the Dimrill 
Dale, he might present himself as a friend of the Dwarves 
of old, like the ravens of the Lonely Mountains, before 
luring them into a trap.
Crawe loves shiny things, especially jewels and gem -
stones. His nest — hidden high among the fir-  trees — is 
like a tiny dragon’s hoard, and contains a king’s ransom in 
emeralds and rubies. Anyone who tries to climb that tree 
gets mobbed by Crawe’s many sharp- clawed offspring.
He also delights in mocking his enemies; he flaps 
among the treetops, cawing satirical rhymes and poking 
fun at misfortune. Unwisely, Mocker Crawe is as likely to 
mock the efforts of Orcs as he is to turn his cruel tongue 
on Player- heroes — anyone who fails embarrassingly at a 
task gets mocked by the crow.
The one thing Crawe dares not mock — the one thing 
he truly fears — is the Eagles. He would do anything to 
get rid of the Great Eagles who have occupied ‘his’ valley.
He nests amid the ruins of the Citadel of Barazinbar 
(see page 117 ). Sometimes, he invites travellers to “visit 
him in his parlour”; Mordor- orcs wait there.
MOCKER CRAWE
Cunning, Greedy
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
2
ENDURANCE
8
MIGHT
1
HATE
2
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Beak and claws 3 (2/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Craven.  When affected by the Intimidate 
Foe combat task, the creature also loses 1 Hate.
Ghastly Wings.  The creature can attack any Player-  
hero, in any combat stance, including Rearward.
Mock. When a nearby Player- hero fails any roll, spend 
1 Hate to make them gain 2 Shadow points (Sorcery).
Wind- like Speed.  All attack rolls against the creature 
are Ill- favoured.
The Dimrill Stair 
- famous -
At the head of the glen a torrent flowed like a white lace over an endless ladder  
of short falls, and a mist of foam hung in the air about the mountains’ feet.
‘Yonder is the Dimrill Stair,’ said Aragorn, pointing to the falls. ‘Down the deep- cloven way 
that climbs beside the torrent we should have come, if fortune had been kinder.’
RUMOUR
“There’s a pass over the Misty Mountains near the ruins of old 
Moria. It’s called the Redhorn Pass. Though steep, it’s often easier 
in summer than the High Pass — and you don’t have to pay the 
tolls demanded by the Beornings. But there are Orcs there, and worse 
than Orcs, so be on your guard. The way to the pass from the east 
is up past the waterfall.”
OLD LORE
“The Dimrill Stair is the name of the sequence of waterfalls that 
cascade down the slopes of the mountains and feed the Silverlode. 
A narrow path leads up the steep slope, and in days of old the 
Dwarves built a stair there to reach the pass. The Dimrill Stair is 
still a sacred place to the Dwarves, for it is one of the few works of 
the Moria- masons not lost to darkness.”
Background
In ancient days, Dwarves traded with Elves and Men of Eriador 
via the Redhorn Pass. The pass had many dangers, even in the 
good years when Orcs were rare, but the eastern approach was 
always difficult. The Dwarves built a series of paths and steps 
up the Dimrill Stair, intertwined with the roaring waterfalls, 
making the pass easier to traverse. With easier travel came 
more trade, and the prosperity of the Dwarrow delf grew. The 
Stair became a monument, adorned with images of Dwarven 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 80 =====

CHAPTER 5
76
heroes; carved arches and colonnaded walkways made the 
pass into a grand road.
Later, the Dwarves delved the long straight road under 
the mountain, and built West Moria, and there was no longer 
any need for travellers to take the Redhorn Pass. The Dimrill 
Stair has seen little use for centuries, and the constant fury 
of the waterfalls wears away even Dwarven stonework. Yet still 
it endures, a testament to the craft of the Dwarves — and a 
promise that greater wonders still lie beneath the mountain.
Locations
1. DIMRILL WATCH
The fortress of Dimrill Watch was once a much larger fortifi-
cation, as its extensive foundations attest, but it was destroyed 
in the Second Age and only partially rebuilt. That reconstruc-
tion was a thousand years ago, so what remains today is mostly 
tumbled down and overgrown. The fortress has long since 
been stripped of any useful equipment, and the secret tun -
nels that connected it to the city were destroyed thousands 
of years ago, but the bones of this place are strong.
At times, Men have dwelt in the ruins of the fortress and 
in the city of Dwarrowhall — kinfolk of the Rohirrim and the 
Woodmen as they migrated along the Anduin valley. The folk 
of Tarloch’s Hall (see page 128) are akin to these ancient set-
tlers. The Men who lived here used Dwarf- cut stones to build 
snug little huts amid the rubble, and these are still sometimes 
used by travellers — or by Orcs, lurking in the shadows and 
watching traffic on the Dimrill Stair.
2. THE DWARF-ROAD
The road to Moria is overgrown, and in places it is hard to 
tell the stones of the road from random rubble. It runs down 
the Dimrill Dale, racing the Silverlode, then branches within 
sight of Lórien. One branch turns north towards the Old 
THE DIMRILL STAIR
1
2
3
4
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 81 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
77
Ford; the other spur continues east, along the forest eaves, 
until it vanishes in the long grass. Once, the road led to the 
banks of the Great River; the ruins of a Dwarven port- town 
have mostly been swallowed by the waters, but the fallen 
marble pillars of the jetty can be seen sometimes when the 
waters run clear.
3. THE DIMRILL STAIR
Many and wild are the waters that tumble from the flanks of 
Celebdil and Fanuidhol, icy sprays and white torrents danc -
ing down the cliff. These cold streams crash and vanish amid 
the jagged stones at the foot of the cliff, to rise again as the 
springs of Kibil- nâla. As they fall, they turn the grey- and- green 
face of the mountainside into a dazzling spectacle, especially 
when the light catches the droplets and it seems as though 
fire falls through the dale.
It is possible, though arduous, to climb the slopes on 
either side of the Stair. The Dwarves of yore carved steps 
there, and now a staircase zig- zags up the mountain from 
the valley floor to the heights above. In places, it runs behind 
the thundering waterfalls; in others, the Dwarves tunnelled 
through the stone. The Stair has not been maintained for 
centuries, and is now dangerous. The steps of the winding 
stair are slick with water or worn by wind, and Orcs lurk in 
the dark side tunnels.
Still, the Stair is passable. Lonely travellers climb the long 
stone stairs to ascend into the mountains; they pass ancient 
statues worn to anonymity by the wind, and may sometimes 
pause at the mouth of those dark tunnels, and remember.
At the top of the Stair waits the long, difficult crossing of 
the mountain (see page 119 for the Pass itself).
4. THE MIRRORMERE
Dark and windless is the surface of Mirror mere, still as glass. 
Long ago, Durin looked in this lake and beheld a crown 
of stars above his head; others who look into the lake see 
nothing at first, then they see the reflections of the moun -
tains above them, and the night sky, and Durin’s crown in 
the unreachable deeps. The lake does not reflect those who 
look into it.
The magic of this place is older than the Dwarves, older 
than Moria. It may be that the lake is a window into the 
other side, reflecting invisible things of spirit rather than vis -
ible things of flesh. Perhaps if an invisible wraith passed by 
Mirror mere, their reflection would be as it is on the other 
side. Whatever its true nature, the Dwarves revere Mirror -
mere (Kheled- zâram in their tongue) as a sacred place. A 
pillar marks the spot where Durin first looked into the lake, 
and it was the tradition of the Dwarves to come to this place 
and seek silent wisdom in the deep waters.
Schemes and Trouble
TRAVELLERS ON THE DIMRILL STAIR
While the Dimrill Stair sees less traffic than the High Pass to 
the north or the Gap of Rohan to the south (not that any 
of them are especially trafficked in the Third Age, save by 
Dwarves), a few travellers do use the Stair. Rangers and Elves 
out of Lórien, for example, and a few traders like Morlena.
Should the Player- heroes spend time on the Dimrill Stair, 
roll a Feat die. On a , another traveller crosses the Stair at 
the same time. On an , they encounter Orcs or other 
foes. The rest of the time, their only companions are the 
constant murmur of the waterfalls and the winds howling 
down off Caradhras.
THE DIMRILL DOOR
Climb the Dimrill Stair, and at one point you come 
to an overhang that the Dwarves cut through. 
Twenty pillars of stone support the massive weight 
of the mountain overhead, and the waters crash 
down on the cliff- face.
Count the pillars, and when you come to the 
17th Pillar, turn and face the rock wall. There is 
a postern door there, hidden by the craft of the 
Dwarves of old and locked with a secret key. The 
original key was made of Mithril; it was captured 
by the Orcs, and sent as tribute to Dol Guldur and 
hence fell into the dreadful hand of Sauron. Many 
centuries later, it was given to the Mordor- orcs 
sent to capture Moria. The door opens onto a nar -
row passageway that spirals down and down until 
it reaches the upper levels of the Dwarrowdelf, 
emerging not far from the Caves of Thyrm Thistle-
beard. The Mordor- orcs use this secret door to 
enter the mountain without passing through the 
East- gate.
The other Orcs of Moria do not know about 
the door, and most Dwarves have forgotten it too. 
(But see Tales from the Lone- lands  for what hap -
pens when a Dwarf finds a copy of the key in the 
archives at the Blue Mountains…)
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 82 =====

CHAPTER 5
78
Morlena Neverrests
Morlena is one of a handful of traders who crosses from the 
still- inhabited lands around Tharbad to visit the folk of the 
Mountain Hall and the Anduin valley, returning laden with 
furs and amber from Wilderland to trade for woven cloth 
and tools in the west. She knows the Dimrill Stair so well 
some whisper that she is a Dwarf- woman who rejected 
the ways of her kin, and certainly Morlena is hardy enough 
to be a Dwarf; neither driving rain nor Goblin nor snow-  
storm dissuades her from her course.
Morlena has a knack for making allies, not always 
kindly ones. She has many friends among the Woodmen 
and the people of Minhiriath, but also she has bargained 
with the Goblin-  tribes of the mountains, with the Giants, 
and even gives offerings amid the fir- groves to whatever 
dark powers dwell there. Morlena is not a servant of the 
Enemy — but neither does she oppose him wholeheartedly.
She has never dared enter Moria, and has a great store 
of tales about others who made the attempt. Most of these 
tales are very old, and end the same way — some young 
hero decides to try his or her luck against the Orcs, or goes 
in search of the fabled treasure of the Dwarves, but never 
returns from the Black Pit. However, if the Player- heroes 
sit and listen to all of Morlena’s tales for an evening, they 
can glean some useful lore about the mines (either Old 
Lore about a Famous Landmark, or a Rumour  about an 
Obscure one).
OCCUPATION:  Trader
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Stout, Wary
LOST MITHRIL
This is one of Morlena’s stranger tales — a year ago, she was 
guiding a trader from Lake- town west over the Redhorn Pass, 
when he spotted a glint of metal by the side of the trail. It was 
a palm- sized bar of cast metal, ready to be melted down and 
remade into something beautiful. At first, Morlena thought 
it was silver, but it was too hard and too light. It could only 
be the fabled Moria- silver — Mithril!
This tale has more questions than answers. Where did 
the bar come from? Even if it was cast by Dwarven miners a 
thousand years ago, how did it end up out in the open on 
the Redhorn Pass? It must have been dropped there recently 
— but by who?
The Lake- town trader continued onto Tharbad — and 
was later found floating face- down in the Greyflood. There 
was no sign of the Mithril ingot. Did it sink into the waters 
— or was it stolen?
All Morlena knows is that it is dangerous to touch the 
treasures of Moria. The shadow claimed them long ago, and 
woe comes to anyone who tries to take them. Still, if the trav-
ellers pay her another silver penny or two, she will show them 
where the trader found the ingot…
What Morlena does not know is that the ingot was dropped 
by some Orcs of Mordor. The foundries of the Dark Land hun-
ger for Mithril to make Sauron’s war machines. More Mithril 
must be mined or recovered from the old stores — and then 
smuggled across the River and on to the Black Land. A Com-
pany who traced this flow of Mithril would not only strike a 
piercing blow against the Enemy, but win a matchless fortune…
WATCHERS AND WAITERS
Moria- orcs use the Dimrill Watch ruins as a vantage point to 
spy upon travellers on the Stair, as from the stronghold it is 
easy to spot intruders. The Orcs have a system of signal- drums 
and horns, and so the watchers in the keep can call to the 
waiters on the Stair. Travellers may be seized and dragged 
into the depths if the Orcs are in need of slaves — or dinner.
SPIES FROM THE GALLERIES
The Mordor- orcs use the secret passage of the Dimrill Door to 
enter Moria unseen. Travellers on the Stair might encounter 
these Orcs creeping about — and if those travellers should 
happen to capture a copy of the valuable key, then Naglur 
would have no choice but to hunt them down…
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 83 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
79
The Mounds of Azanulbizar 
- obscure -
In places there were ruined works of stone beside the path, and mounds of green 
topped with slender birches, or fir- trees sighing in the wind.
RUMOUR
“There are barrows where those who fell in the Battle of Dimrill Dale 
were laid to rest — but they don’t rest soundly.”
OLD LORE
“After their grim victory in the Battle of Azanulbizar, the Dwarves 
stripped their dead of armour and weapons, then burnt the remains 
with honour. The Orc- corpses, though, they piled in huge mounds 
and left to rot. These great ossuaries have become grassy hillocks, 
and mark the edges of the battlefield. The mounds are a corrupt 
and haunted place, and it is not good to rest there.”
Background
The Mounds describe a rough semi- circle around the spot 
where the fighting was heaviest, with a gap facing the Mirror-
mere. The corpses of the slain Orcs were dragged to these 
six spots. In the centre of the circle is a stone: a monument 
erected by the Orcs to mark the site of the battle.
Locations
1. THE ORC-MOUNDS
Grass and a few lonely saplings grow on these great mounds 
of earth; beneath lie the remains of hundreds of Orcs. The 
mounds are a dreadful place; any Player- hero who spends 
the night in the circle of mounds gains 2 points of Shadow 
(Dread) as they hear whispering from underground, like the 
rustling of ashes.
2. THE CENTRAL STONE
The central stone was dragged out of Khazad- dûm, where 
once it adorned the doorway into the First Hall (see page 
86). The Orcs who raised it as a monument originally 
painted the sign of Bolg upon the stone (a scimitar). After 
the Battle of Five Armies, this was replaced with the sign of 
Gorgol (a severed bear’s head, although it takes a keen eye 
and a certain amount of artistic licence to see the Orcish 
splatters as a bear head.)
A CRAFT  roll identifies the stone as being of ancient Dwar-
ven work; if the Company restores it and returns it to its 
proper place in the First Hall, they all regain 1 point of Hope.THE MOUNDS  
OF AZANULBIZAR
1
 1
1
1
1
1
2
4
3
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 84 =====

CHAPTER 5
80
3. TIG’S BURROW
A curious wild man named Tig lives in a hole dug into the 
side of one of the mounds. The entrance to his little lair is 
concealed by a curtain of earth- coloured cloth and hard to 
spot, although keen- eyed crows marked it long ago.
Tig the Scavenger
Old Tig is a wild man, his hair matted and filthy, eyes bleary, 
running on all fours sometimes like a beast. He has a dozen 
holes and caves across the Dale as hiding places. The Orcs 
cannot catch him — or cannot catch him again, for it is 
obvious from Tig’s scars and twisted limbs that he was a 
prisoner and plaything of the Orcs for a time. He remem -
bers only a few words of the Common Tongue; catch him 
on a good day, when his wits are about him, and he might 
remember a little of his youth too — how he once lived 
in a great house of stone in the middle of a green wood, 
but how he was washed away when the waters rose and 
could never find his way home.
Tig survives by scavenging mail and weapons from the 
ancient battlefield of Azanulbizar; he trades the weapons he 
finds to merchants crossing the Dimrill Stair, or once he has 
enough, he bundles them up and makes his way down to 
the Great River to await the River- folk (see page 116). The 
weapons Tig sells are rusted and broken, but even an old 
Dwarven sword is better than the work of most human smiths.
Now, it is said that the Dwarves cleared the field of 
weapons after the battle, to stop the Orcs from salvag -
ing them. No doubt, blinded by weeping, the Dwarves 
might have missed a few scattered hammers and swords, 
but Tig’s been scavenging and trading here for a decade. 
Might the old man know some secret path into Moria?
(If Tig does know a path, it is through the Mountain 
Galleries, see page 122 . Alternatively, he might be a spy 
for Gorlakh the Doorwarden, see page 84 ).
OCCUPATION:  Scavenger
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Eager, Secretive
4. THE GIBBET
A crude wooden gibbet stands near the fork of the road. It 
was raised by the Orcs after the murder of Thrór, and they 
displayed the butchered remains of the king in this iron cage 
as a warning to the Dwarves and fodder for the crows. After 
the Battle of Dimrill Dale, the Dwarves put the head of Azog 
on a stake, but the Orc’s carcass they put here, in answer to 
the insult to Thrór.
Now, there is another body in the gibbet — the remains 
of an Orc. A close examination of the remains reveals that 
this Orc bore the sigil of the Lidless Eye. It was a messenger 
from Mordor, and the word he brought from the Dark Tower 
met with little welcome in the Misty Mountains. Sauron is 
not yet so strong that he can command the Orcs of Moria.
Schemes and Troubles
WHAT DID YOU DO IN THE WAR?
The War of Dwarves and Orcs was a bloody conflict. The mur-
der of one of Durin’s line was an insult no Dwarf could ignore, 
and Dwarves from all the scattered settlements in Eriador and 
Rhovanion, from the Blue Mountains to the Iron Hills, came 
together to seek revenge on the Orcs. Even if a Player- hero 
was too young to take part in the war (T.A. 2793–2799), some 
of their kinfolk certainly did. The first time a Dwarf Player- 
hero enters Dimrill Dale, ask them to describe what they or 
their kin did in the war. Did they:
 ♦ Heed the call to rally with King Thráin?
 ♦ Partake in the scourging of the Goblin lairs?
 ♦ Fight at the attacks on Gundabad and Goblin Town?
 ♦ Fight at the battle of Azanulbizar?
In that battle, did they:
 ♦ Fall in battle? If so, were their remains burnt in a pyre, 
or carried away by the Orcs?
 ♦ Did they fight in the retreat into the woods of the 
upper Dale? Or were they part of the heroic charge of 
the Iron Hill Dwarves to rescue Thráin’s forces?
 ♦ Did they agree with Thráin that the Dwarves should have 
pressed on and taken Moria? Or did they agree with the 
other captains that the victory was too costly, and that 
the time had not yet come to reclaim the lost city?
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 85 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
81
The East-gate of Moria 
- famous -
Suddenly before them the Great Gate opened, an arch of blazing light.
RUMOUR
“King Thrór entered Moria by this door, for it was open when he 
came to it. But Orcs waited in ambush in the darkness within, and 
slew the King unjustly.”
OLD LORE
The East- gate of Moria lies at the end of the Dimrill Dale. No 
army has ever breached it from outside, and not even the mightiest 
Dragon or Giant could hope to enter this way. Only from within 
could Khazad- dûm fall.
Background
Even in desolation, the East- gate is a wonder of the world. 
What was the main entrance to the realm of Khazad- dûm is 
topped by a tall arch of stone, so huge that it could swallow 
Ancalagon the Black. The arch is made with huge stone 
blocks, adorned with runes composing spells of prohibition 
and exclusion in Khuzdul. Other smaller runic inscriptions 
in Quenya, Sindarin, the Common Speech, the languages 
of Rohan and of Dale and Dunland spell out clear com -
mands that ‘all should depart who has not the leave of the 
Lord of Moria’.
Under the arch, two tall windows open in the rock wall, 
letting the light inside during the day. A flight of huge and 
age- worn steps climbs to the threshold proper.
Right inside the threshold lies a guardpost where Orcs 
keep watch. The Orcs carry bows of horn and javelins, and 
the ground just outside the gates is a muddy morass of pits 
and concealed stakes to dissuade assault. Foul fumes issue 
from smoke- pots and Orcish devilry; these fumes are thick 
enough to blot out the pale sun in winter.
THE EAST-GATE OF MORIA
1
2
3
4
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 86 =====

CHAPTER 5
82
Locations
1. THE GATES
The gates barring the eastern entrance to Moria were wrought 
of iron girded in Mithril, and were cunningly made to be 
so perfectly balanced that a handful of Dwarves could close 
them with little effort. There was a locking mechanism, but 
it no longer functions; Orc- mischief and the ravages of time 
have destroyed it. When the Orcs want to keep the 
gates barred from within, they have Stone- trolls 
bar them (for the current state of the gates, 
see box).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 87 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
83
2. THE GRAND PORTCULLIS
Just inside the East- gate is a second layer of defence 
— a mighty portcullis of steel that can be dropped 
down, sealing off the main corridor. The port -
cullis mechanism has rusted shut, although a 
Player- hero of surpassing might could break 
the ancient chains and bring the gate crashing 
down one last time.
3. GUARD-POST
Near the East- gate is an old Dwarven 
guard- post, now occupied by Orcs. 
This guard- post is typical of such 
places — it is cunningly con -
cealed behind hidden doors, 
and has tiny spy- holes so 
those within can watch 
the nearby corridors and 
approaches.
THE DESTRUCTION OF THE GATES
The fate of the Gates themselves is a curious matter. In 
The Lord of the Rings , it is noted that “the gates were 
shattered and cast down”  when the Fellowship escaped 
in the year 3019. However, when Thrór came to Moria in 
2790, he found “the Gate was open.”  Does that mean the 
gates could have been closed  afterwards? If so, were the 
Gates destroyed in the intervening years?
Some possibilities for the Gates of Moria:
 ♦ DESTROYED IN THE RETREAT FROM MORIA:  When 
the Dwarves fled Durin’s Bane, they might have 
destroyed their own doors from the inside, know -
ing that if they left their fortress with its defences 
intact, they would have no hope of retaking it in 
future. The Orcs later tried to repair the doors, 
but they lacked the craft and cunning of their 
makers, and could only prop the Gates up and fill 
the gaps with debris.
 ♦ DESTROYED IN THE BATTLE OF AZANULBIZAR:  
Alternatively, the doors of Moria might have 
endured until the War of the Dwarves and Orcs, 
when they were cast down in the battle. The 
Doors of Durin were wondrously strong, but the 
Dwarves were wroth. Perhaps they used some 
cunning siege weapon, or knew a secret spell of 
unmaking handed down in whispers from one 
heir of Durin to the next.
 ♦ DESTROYED IN SOME OTHER EVENT:  More intrigu -
ingly, what if the Gates were destroyed more 
recently, in the years between the Battle of Five 
Armies and the War of the Ring? A small band of 
heroes might creep in through some secret way 
and sabotage the gates from within…
Both Aragorn and Gandalf also passed through Moria. 
Gandalf searched Moria for any sign of Thráin around the 
year 2845, while Aragorn likely came this way in 2980, on 
his way back to Rivendell from Lothlórien. Both passed 
from East to West, so it is likely the East- gate was open 
or broken when they came this way.
If the gate is guarded, then there is a mix of Goblin 
Archers and Orc Guards (a total equal to twice the number 
of Player- heroes), plus an Orc Drummer in many cases (see 
Orcs of Moria, on page 53).
4. GORLAKH’S LAIR
The Orc Gorlakh is the Doorwarden of Moria. He does not 
sleep in the guardpost — too many ambitious young Goblins 
there who might cut his throat — but has a lair near the main 
gate. His chamber was once a customs- house where Dwarven 
clerks oversaw the passage of goods through the gate, but all 
that remains of its former function is the heavy, secure door. 
In a chest, Gorlakh keeps the treasures and trappings of his 
office, including the (purely ceremonial) key to the Gate, a 
few coins looted from Moria — and a bundle of treasure from 
Mordor, including amulets marked with the Eye.
Gorlakh’s henchman is an old Stone- troll Robber called 
Pic, so old he spends much of his time sleeping (and one of 
these days may just turn to stone in his bed). His only duties 
are to barricade the Gate if ordered, and to brutally dismem-
ber anyone who tries to steal Gorlakh’s treasure.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 88 =====

CHAPTER 5
84
Gorlakh the Doorwarden
An old Orc of the Misty Mountains, Gorlakh is in charge 
of keeping watch over the East- gate and the Dimrill Dale. 
He is adept at moving around by day, and wears a wide-  
brimmed hat to shade his eyes from the frightful sun. Gor -
lakh is a clever old monster — he knows how to feed the 
crows of the Dale, and how to read the shifting clouds to 
foretell when it will be safe to go outside, and even how to 
listen to the grumblings of the mountains. He sometimes 
creeps down to eavesdrop on travellers heading for the 
Dimrill Stair, to get tidings of the wider world.
Gorlakh is supposed to be loyal to Gorgol son of Bolg, 
and Gorgol’s lieutenant Malech One- eye (see page 114 ), 
but the Doorwarden is more far- sighted than most Orcs — he 
knows the Orcs of Mordor are up in the heights of the Moun-
tain Galleries, and he has heard rumours of the return of the 
Dark Lord. He wants to be on the winning side, and if that 
means betraying Malech and allying with the Mordor- orcs, 
so be it. Maybe that means leaving the gates unguarded 
from time to time, in the hopes that some adventurers might 
creep into Moria and stick a sword in Malech’s guts…
He hates the Udûn- orcs of the Deeps, and fears that 
Malech will fall into their madness before long, leaving 
Gorlakh all alone, caught between ghâsh  and the sun.
OCCUPATION:  Doorwarden
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Cunning, Wary
Use the Orc- chieftain statistics for Gorlakh, replacing Great 
Leap and Yell of Triumph with the Denizen of the Dark  and 
Drums in the Deep  Fell Abilities.
Schemes and Trouble
APPROACHING THE GATES
Depending on the needs of your campaign, the gates may be 
Closed, Open or Broken.
 ♦ If Closed, then they are quite impenetrable by any 
methods the Player- heroes are likely to have at their 
disposal. The armies of Mordor could hammer on the 
Gates of Moria for a very long time without breaching 
them, so a few wandering adventurers have no chance 
of forcing them. The Company must wait for them to 
open, or find another way in.
 ♦ If Open, then it is likely the Orcs are expecting visitors. 
While there are Goblin- tunnels that worm through the 
mountains, connecting the bowels of Moria with other 
fortresses like Goblin Town, these routes wind much 
and are virtually impassable by all but the scrawniest 
Goblins. It is easier for the Orcs to travel by night, in 
the open. As Orcs are not known for either their punc-
tuality or their vigilance, the gate can be left open for 
weeks at a time. An open gate is likely guarded, unless 
some misfortune has befallen the Doorwarden.
 ♦ If Broken, then the Gates cannot be shut. Broken 
Gates are always guarded.
Alternatively, if you prefer to let chance play more of a role, 
then roll the Feat die to determine the current status of the 
Gates. If the Player- heroes were spotted by Orc- sentries or 
other foes in the Dimrill Dale, then roll the Feat die twice 
and take the lowest result.
MORIA GATES STATUS
FEAT DIE 
ROLL THE GATES…
…are shut — the Company must lie in wait until 
the Orcs sally forth, which may mean wait -
ing until nightfall, or until the moon is waning 
gibbous.
1–2 …are heavily guarded; sneaking in is impos -
sible, and the Player- heroes must fight the 
Guard- orcs (a double- strength guard- post, so 
four times as many Orcs as the Player- heroes).
3–4 …appear unguarded, but it is a ruse — there are 
Orcs lying in wait in the shadows beyond the 
gate. They will attack once the Player- heroes 
are deep enough inside the entrance to be 
unable to flee.
5–8 …are guarded by a single guard- post worth of 
Orcs.
9–10 …are but lightly guarded, and the sentries are 
not watchful; the Company can sneak with a 
successful STEALTH  roll.
…are unguarded when the Player- heroes arrive.
THE FATE OF EAGLES
After the Battle of Five Armies, the Lord of the Eagles sent 
three of his kind flying south to the Dimrill Dale, to keep 
watch on the doors of Moria. The three Eagles watch the 
comings and goings of the Orcs, and have snatched up so 
many of them and dashed them against the rocks that they 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 89 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
85
dare not go abroad by day, not even when the clouds shade 
the sun, lest they be caught like rabbits.
The leader of the trio is Thoradel. Proud and thoughtful, 
she often soars above the mountain- peaks, seeking wisdom 
on the west wind. Her companions are Taentirith, a scholarly 
Eagle who has made a study of all the outcrops and towers of 
Moria visible from the mountainside above — including the 
accessible ventilation shafts — and unlucky Padroval. The 
third Eagle was struck by an Orc- arrow and forced to land 
amid the mounds. The Orcs caught Padroval in nets and 
dragged him beyond the Gate.
Thoradel knows her comrade is still alive — she has heard 
Padroval’s cries echoing up from the depths of Moria — but 
has no way to rescue the hostage. So far, the Orcs have made 
no attempt to ransom Padroval, and any demand will doubtless 
be conveyed by the wretched bird Mocker Crawe (see page 
74). Thoradel suspects that several groups of Orcs may be 
squabbling over the hostage, and that they will make a demand 
only once they have resolved that dispute. There may be time 
for some bold heroes to sneak in and rescue the eagle…
The eagle is held in a chamber near Gorlakh’s lair, 
guarded by the Troll Pic.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 90 =====

CHAPTER 5
86
Old Moria
Dark yawned the archway of the Gates under the mountain- shadow. 
Faint and far beneath the earth rolled the slow drum- beats: doom.
 
he region of Old Moria is, as even the most 
dunder- headed Hobbit might very well deduce 
from the name, the oldest part of the city. Here 
is where Durin began to labour, in the first days 
of the Sun and Moon. It is also the part of the city which has 
suffered most from the depredations of the Orcs — the 
wretches cluster here, close to the surface and the Gate, and 
have amused themselves over the centuries by defiling the 
once- glorious city. It was also here that the Dwarves held out 
against Durin’s Bane for almost a year, and the corridors and 
halls still bear the scars of that conflict. Flames intense enough 
to melt stone blazed here, and it is clear that some tremen -
dously strong creature smashed through the defences of the 
Dwarves.
Even after many centuries, there is a faint, impossible 
stench of burnt flesh, and the shadows are thick with ghosts. 
Player- heroes walking through these passageways gain 2 points 
of Shadow (Dread).
The First Hall 
- famous -
They ran on. The light grew before them; great shafts pierced the roof. They ran swifter. 
They passed into a hall, bright with daylight from its high windows in the east.
RUMOUR
“Just inside the East- gate lies Durin’s hall, where the Dwarves kept 
some of their greatest treasures. But the doors were kept locked except 
on certain sacred days.”
OLD LORE
“The First Hall was Durin’s Hall. It was here he began his long labours, 
and dwelt alone for many years. He carved upon the walls his mem-
ories of the Elder Days, and it is said he even preserved there his 
memories of the face of Aulë his Maker. Now, this hall was preserved 
as Durin left it when he passed into sleep, for it was the belief of the 
Naugrim of yore that their King was deathless: that Durin would 
return again in time to come. Thus, it was the custom of the line 
of kings of the Longbeards to bring their heirs to the First Hall on 
Durin’s Day when they were young; if the beardless boy could inter-
pret the carvings on the walls, he was proclaimed to be Durin reborn. 
Five times Durin returned indeed, and each time the chosen prince 
perfectly resembled the ancient carvings of Durin I, and ruled wisely.”
“Others among the Wise say that the rite was different; that 
Durin would awaken in his former body, and climb from his hidden 
tomb to the city above, and that the purpose of the First Hall was to 
ensure that the resurrected Dwarf was indeed the true Durin and 
not some counterfeit made by the Enemy.”
Background
The First Hall of Moria was Durin’s Hall, the home of the 
Father of the Longbeards in the days before the making of the 
Sun and Moon. The First Hall, therefore, was a blessed place 
to the Dwarves, a connection to their kings of old. The Hall 
was tended by hooded priests and scholars, and the carvings 
of Durin shrouded by veils to hide them from the eyes of the 
unworthy. (It was a mark of the long friendship between the 
Longbeards and the Elves of Hollin that, in time, the Dwarves 
invited their friends to enter the Inner portion of the First 
Hall and look upon the carven walls.)
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 91 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
87
At the same time, the First Hall was very close to the 
East- gate, and thus all traffic entering the city went past the 
Hall. Durin’s Door (3) divides the Landmark between its 
two functions.
Locations
1. THE ROAD UNDER THE MOUNTAIN
The main thoroughfare leads straight from the East- gate to 
Durin’s Bridge (see page 89). It is wide and high- ceilinged. 
Here, close to the surface, it is lit by high windows. Deeper in 
the mountain, there were lamps of gold and crystal, but now 
the Road is dark save a glimmer at the east end.
2. THE OUTER HALL
This is the portion of the First Hall that the Dwarves permitted 
outsiders to travel through, in the days when the Dwarrow-
delf welcomed visitors. In design it is stark and simple, far 
less grand than some of the newer halls within. But every 
mark of chisel and pick is preserved, for they were made by 
Durin the Deathless.
Only the north wall is — or was — as impressive as one 
might expect. When the First Hall was divided into Inner 
and Outer Halls, the Dwarves made the dividing wall into a 
monument, and it was richly adorned with Ithildin, gold- leaf 
and other precious things. The images on the wall depicted 
the deeds of Durin. The Orcs, of course, have despoiled this 
sacred place, stripping the gold and jewels from the east wall 
and covering the rest with graffiti or ordure.
THE FIRST HALL
1
1
2
3
4
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 92 =====

CHAPTER 5
88
3. DURIN’S DOOR
In the centre of the north wall is Durin’s Door, a simple por-
tal of stone. Runes carved upon it proclaim for any Dwarf 
to read that this door can only be opened on Durin’s Day. 
(“The first day of the Dwarves’ New Year is as all should know the 
first day of the last moon of Autumn on the threshold of Winter. We 
still call it Durin’s Day when the last moon of Autumn and the sun 
are in the sky together.”)
Yet, a Player- hero scoring a Magical success on an appro-
priate Skill might be able to open it at another time.
4. THE INNER HALL
Once, the Inner Hall was a shrine to Durin, for it was in this 
hall he dwelt alone when the world was young. The walls 
once bore carvings made by the Father of the Longbeards, 
and many pillars support the roof. The coronation throne 
of the Longbeards still stands at the far end of the hall, but 
whatever could be taken from the hall is gone. Now, the walls 
are bare, great slabs cut from them so the carvings might be 
borne away. The oldest history of the Dwarves is gone.
The sight of this ancient shrine stripped of its fabled carv-
ings might drive any Dwarf to despair — Dwarves gain 1 point 
of Shadow (Dread) upon entering the Hall.
Inscribed onto slabs near the coronation throne are the 
names of all the Dwarven kings, from Durin I to Durin VI. 
The last king of Moria, Náin I, was never formally crowned, 
but some loyal subject hastily scratched his name into the 
floor next to that of his father — and, curiously, the numeral 
V, even though Náin was the first of his name. (This is a sub-
tle clue pointing to the lost Fifth Hall and the Last Redoubt 
of the Dwarves  — see page 92).
Schemes and Troubles
THE LOST CARVINGS
When Moria fell, the Dwarves held the First Hall for as long as 
they could, but when it became clear that the fight was hopeless, 
King Náin I ordered that the carvings be preserved. His crafts-
men cut down the most prized works of Durin, and hid them 
— but the secret of their hiding place was lost in the confusion.
If the location of the Lost Carvings is to be found anywhere, 
it might be found in the Last Redoubt (see page 92). The 
Dwarves there may have left some clue as to where their com-
rades hid the carvings taken from the First Hall. Did they con-
ceal them elsewhere in Moria, or did they spirit them to safety?
The Second Hall  
and Durin’s Bridge 
- famous -
Suddenly Frodo saw before him a black chasm. At the end of the hall the floor vanished and 
fell to an unknown depth. The outer door could only be reached by a slender bridge of stone, 
without kerb or rail, that spanned the chasm with one curving spring of fifty feet.
RUMOUR
“There is a black pit in Moria, just beyond the First Hall. It has no 
bottom, and is spanned only by a single narrow bridge. There is no 
other way into the city save that bridge.”
OLD LORE
The rumours are mostly true. Durin’s Bridge is indeed the only 
way across the chasm, although there are secret routes higher in the 
mountain that bypass the abyss. Knowledge of those hidden routes 
likely died with the Dwarves.
Background
The narrow stone span of Durin’s Bridge crosses a vast nat -
ural abyss, the best defence against any enemy that might 
capture the First Hall and the outer passages. Durin made it, 
in the Elder Days, and what spell or art he used to work the 
stone is lost. The chasm beneath the bridge has never been 
plumbed and may be bottomless, although if a Player- hero 
looks down from the bridge, they may see the lights of other 
openings onto the abyss in the Deeps below.
From the east, the bridge and the chasm are reached by a 
doorway found at the end of great stairs of stone descending 
from a wide echoing passage. The Second Hall lies beyond 
the bridge. In ages past, the hall was a great marketplace, 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 93 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
89
where traders from the East- gate sold their wares or began 
the long dark march to the West- gate. There are dozens of 
side chambers and lesser halls leading off from this cavernous 
hall– so the Orcs of different factions often clash here, and 
the passageways are often littered with the corpses of warriors 
who died in the dark.
Locations
1. DURIN’S BRIDGE
The Bridge is so narrow that only one person at a time may 
walk abreast, and a single doughty warrior (or Wizard!) can 
hold the span against a host of foes.
In game terms, only a single Player- hero on the Bridge 
can be in either Forward, Open, or Defensive stance, another 
(if armed with a Spear or Great Spear) may be in Open or 
Defensive stance behind the first, and all the rest can (and 
must) be in Rearward.
CRIES OF THE PRISONERS
The Orcish prison called the Ledge of Woe (see 
page 158 ) opens onto the abyss many levels 
below this hall. Player- heroes crossing the bridge 
may hear distant pleas for help echoing up from 
far below. If the Company enters Moria on a res -
cue mission, they may hear the cries of those they 
seek long before they lay eyes on them.
THE SECOND HALL  
AND DURIN’S BRIDGE
1
2
3
4
5
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 94 =====

CHAPTER 5
90
2. ORC-GUARDS
Orcs encamp on the west side of the chasm, in the Second 
Hall proper. Their numbers vary; if the Orcs are caught off 
guard, then there may be only a few bored Goblins here. How-
ever, if the alarm has been raised (or an important Chieftain 
like Malech One- eye is nearby), then they are here in force. 
They keep Cave- trolls penned nearby, and if intruders attack 
via the First Hall, these Trolls are forced onto the bridge with 
long spears and made to fight the invaders while Goblins in 
the Second Hall loose arrows and hurl projectiles. However, 
if the Orcs think that there is treasure to be looted, they let 
the attackers across the bridge, to ensure their corpses do 
not fall into the abyss.
3. THE SECOND HALL
Though the First Hall might fail to awe visitors to Khazad-  
dûm, the Second Hall is an astounding feat of Dwarven craft, 
a true wonder of the world. It is wider, loftier and far lon -
ger than First Hall, and its length runs westward into dark -
ness. Lines of huge black pillars carved like mighty trees run 
along it, the tops of the columns disappearing into the dark 
above (some of the pillars may be hollow, hiding secret stairs 
or guard chambers). The smooth surface of the floor is lit -
tered with debris, but still reflects any source of light like a 
polished mirror.
The Second Hall is a great crossroads. Not only does the 
main road lead on up into the Dwarrow delf (see page 96), 
and onto the Road (see page 132) but it is easy from here 
to find staircases that lead up into the Mountain Galleries 
(see page 122) and down into the Deeps (see page 150).
4. THE STAIRS OF SUN AND MOON
One of the lost glories of Moria, the Stairs of Sun and Moon 
led up from the Second Hall into the city proper. Half the 
steps were decorated with panels of silver; the others with 
panels of gold, and light from windows high above made the 
whole stairway shine with heavenly light. Two sculpted trees 
— again, one of silver, the other gold — “grew” at the foot of 
the stairs, and travellers passed under the arch where their 
branches intertwined.
When the Balrog chased the last Dwarves out of Moria, 
the heat of its passing melted the Stairs of Sun and Moon; 
panels and trees alike were reduced to a slag of molten metal 
that had congealed at the foot of the stairs. Over the years, 
thieves have hacked away much of this lump of treasure, as 
the stairs are quite close to the main entrance to the city and 
thus easily accessible. No Dwarf, though, could look upon the 
ruin of the stairs without weeping.
5. THE SHRINE OF AZOG
In a small room off the Second Hall, forgotten by Dwarves and 
Orcs alike, is the skull of Azog. The Dwarves stuck Azog’s head 
on a stake after the Battle of Dimrill Dale. Now, the Orcs do 
not venerate their dead. Carcasses are stripped of any useful 
gear, then thrown aside — or in the stew- pot, but they recog-
nise the power of hate. Thus, the head of Azog was preserved, 
complete with the pouch of coins he had flung at Thrór’s 
servant Nár, all those years before, and that the Dwarves had 
thrust into its mouth after his death. They placed it in this 
little side room, on top of a broken pillar, and today it is still 
there, a grisly monument to the inextinguishable hatred run-
ning between Orcs and Dwarves.
Azog, though, was a Great Orc, a thing of terror. His mal-
ice seeped into the stone, and now this chamber is haunted 
by his malevolence. The room seems like a safe place to hide 
— it is easily defended, mostly intact, and clearly has not been 
used by the Orcs in a long time. However, anyone who rests 
here gains 3 points of Shadow (Dread), as they are beset by 
vivid nightmares of being a prisoner of the Orcs.
Schemes and Troubles
FISSURES IN THE STONE
In the year 3019, when the Fellowship reaches the Second 
Hall in their attempt to leave Moria, they find that a great 
fissure had opened right across its floor, close to the feet of 
two of its huge pillars, preventing anyone from crossing the 
hall from west to east, or vice versa.
COINS OF LITTLE WORTH
The leather bag that held the coins rotted long ago, 
but the half- dozen copper coins given to Nár as 
an insult remain, among the fangs of Azog. These 
coins, too, have absorbed something of the malice 
of the Great Orc. Anyone who carries one of these 
unremarkable coins grants any Orc fighting them 
the Hatred  Fell Ability.
The coins have a special potency when it 
comes to revenge, though — when the bearer 
makes an attack on someone they have a special, 
personal enmity for, the target’s Protection rolls 
are Ill- favoured.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 95 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
91
This is because the flames of Udûn have consumed parts 
of Moria, and the Second Hall — so close to the chasm — is 
especially vulnerable. In the year 2965 the floor is still intact, 
but if any Player- hero rolls an  in combat here, the floor 
gives away beneath them and flames leap out (this counts as 
a Severe Endurance loss from fire damage).
WATCHERS IN THE SHADOWS
Malech One- eye knows that the Second Hall is a key cross -
roads in Moria, and therefore he stations one of his most 
trusted spies here to keep an eye on travellers as well as old 
Gorlakh the Doorwarden — the creature called Reekbat.
Any Player- hero entering the Second Hall may have a 
chance to catch sight of what looks like a great bat at first 
glance. If they do not bring the creature down, raise their 
Eye Awareness score by 4 as the fiend flees to warn its master.
Reekbat
No- one is quite sure if Reekbat is a horribly twisted Goblin, 
or something that Malech fished out of the deepest pits. 
It is Goblin- like in size and shape, but long folds of foetid 
skin stretch between the creature’s ankles and wrists — it is 
something between a bat and a horrible, hairless squirrel. 
It shuffles around in an ungainly fashion, but can glide and 
flit between the pillars of the Second Hall.
REEKBAT
Foul, Secretive
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Claws 3 (4/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Great Leap.  Spend 1 Hate to attack any Player- hero, 
in any combat stance, including Rearward.
Hate Sunlight.  The creature loses 1 point of Hate at the 
start of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Yell of Alarm . Spend 1 Hate to raise the Eye Aware -
ness of the Company by 1. If the total Eye Awareness is 
equal to or greater than the Hunt Threshold, there is an 
immediate Revelation episode.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 96 =====

CHAPTER 5
92
The Last Redoubt  
of the Dwarves 
- hidden -
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 97 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
93
RUMOUR
“There are ghosts in the deeps. Put your ear to the ground in 
the Dimrill Dale, and you’ll hear the mountain rumbling 
far below. Those are the ghosts of the Dwarves who 
died fighting in the fall of Moria, a thousand years 
ago. They never yielded, not even when all was 
doomed.”
OLD LORE
“Now Durin VI was dead, and his son Náin 
became King — but he was king only for 
a little while, and was never formally 
crowned. He commanded the 
retreat from the city, and when 
as many of his people as could 
be rescued were safe, he led 
his most loyal companions 
back into the mountain, 
with the intent of slaying 
Durin’s Bane. He never 
returned.”
Background
Durin’s Bane awoke in the Year 1980 of the Third Age; Moria 
was finally abandoned the following year. The creature first 
laid waste to the ancient city of the Dwarrow delf in the heart 
of the mountain; the surviving Dwarves retreated west and 
east, hoping to hold the entrances to Moria — or at least, 
to give their kinfolk time to escape. It was a terrible time — 
Durin’s Bane moved through the city like a tempest of fire, 
whirling and leaping, and none knew their doom was at hand 
until it was too late. The monster toyed with the Dwarves most 
cruelly, trapping them in the city by sealing gates or collaps -
ing passageways, penning them up like rats in a sack before 
finally destroying them.
Náin I — the son of the slain Durin VI, raised to the 
kingship prematurely — chose the Fifth Hall as his throne 
room. The Fifth Hall was formerly the seat of the Lord War -
den of the East Door, and was as defensible a place as could 
be imagined. Náin and his followers resided here, overseeing 
the retreat, until the dreadful day when rumour came that 
Durin’s Bane was close at hand, approaching from the west.
Now, chief among the treasures that Náin had rescued 
from the inner city was the Ring of Power, chief of the Seven. 
When Náin wore the Ring, he could sense something of the 
thought and intent of Durin’s Bane, and he knew that the 
creature would steal the Ring if it could, and that it would 
barricade the East- gate and end any hope of escape. There -
fore, to ensure the Ring’s safety, Náin entrusted it to his son 
Thráin I, and bid the boy to go with a small number of ser -
vants. Náin then mustered his followers and had them shut 
the eastern doors of the Fifth Hall, and sound trumpets at 
the western doors — a challenge to Durin’s Bane to meet the 
Lord of Khazad- dûm in combat.
But the Balrog was malicious beyond measure. It came 
to the Fifth Hall in the form of a noxious cloud, a 
burning vapour that no weapon could wound and 
no Dwarf could endure. Náin and his followers 
were forced to fall back into the Hall and shut 
the doors — and the Balrog then sealed the 
doors with a spell, trapping Náin and his fol -
lowers in the Fifth Hall.
Thráin escaped, of course, thanks to his 
father’s sacrifice, and he carried the Ring of 
Durin with him, and that Ring was the founda -
tion of the Kingdom under the Mountain in Ere-
bor. But Náin and his followers were trapped 
forever in the Fifth Hall, and there they stayed 
until they starved to death or slew themselves 
in despair.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 98 =====

CHAPTER 5
94
Locations
1. THE ASHEN CHAMBER
Here was where King Náin’s warriors ambushed Durin’s Bane 
— and were destroyed. This chamber was once a mustering- 
yard where the guards of the East- gate would gather, but all 
evidence of its former function was destroyed in the Balrog’s 
wrath. While a thousand years have cooled the flames, the 
chamber is still caked in soot, and the very stone has melted 
and fused in places.
2. COLLAPSED CORRIDOR
The Dwarves deliberately collapsed this corridor to cover 
their escape. Over the centuries, nameless things must have 
wormed their way through the rocks, as now there is a very 
narrow passageway to squeeze through.
Squeezing through requires an ATHLETICS  roll — Hob -
bits gain (1d). If even a single Player- hero fails, raise the Eye 
Awareness by 1.
3. THE OUTER REDOUBT
These were the outer rooms of the hall, home to clerks and 
scribes serving the Lord Warden. Those who survived the 
retreat from the Ashen Chamber fell back here, horribly 
burnt. Those who fell still lie here, although a thousand years 
has reduced them to bare bones.
The mighty door of the Fifth Hall is a smaller replica of 
the East- gate. While it is not locked, it is still sealed by the spell 
of the Balrog. Anyone who touches the door gains 3 points 
of Shadow (Sorcery). Opening the door requires a Magical 
success on a suitable Skill roll ( ATHLETICS , AWE, CRAFT  or 
SONG ). Opening the door in this fashion alerts the Balrog 
to the presence of a mighty foe (raising Eye Awareness by 2).
Alternatively, the spell has faded enough for the doors to 
be hammered down, but doing so takes effort (a Skill Endeav-
our with a Resistance of 6, using ATHLETICS  or CRAFT ; each 
roll raises the Eye Awareness by 1).
4. THE FIFTH HALL
Within is a sight of horror — and dangerously foul air, for these 
doors have not been opened in centuries, and the chambers 
inside are now thick with rot. The skeletons of Náin’s follow-
ers lie about the place where they died. In their last days, they 
drew signs of warning on the walls and floor, depicting Durin’s 
Bane and the fall of Moria. These ghastly images depict a fig-
ure of smoke and fire lurking on the far side of the door, kill-
ing at will, and warn that no weapon can wound Durin’s Bane.
A search reveals a considerable arsenal of Dwarven-  
forged weapons and armour, for these were the best knights 
of the realm, the King’s own bodyguards. Roll the Feat die 
six times to determine if there is any Magical Treasure here, 
and assume that any Magical Treasures are Famous Weap -
ons or Armour.
THE LAST REDOUBT  
OF THE DWARVES
1
2
3
4
5
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 99 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
95
5. THE CAIRN OF KING NÁIN
Here lies Náin I, Last Lord of Khazad- dûm. He lies in a hum-
ble cairn for one of the line of Durin, but in his hands he 
holds a heavy ring of keys. The King’s grave- goods count as 
a Greater Hoard — a meagre hoard compared to the lost 
wealth of the city. Also laid in the grave is a handwritten 
history, giving an account of the last days of King Náin. It 
describes how the king first fled to the Mountain Galleries 
(see page 122) and escaped down the mountain slopes, but 
returned to Moria to lead a doomed counter- attack against 
the enemy.
Schemes and Troubles
FINDING THE LAST REDOUBT
The Last Redoubt is a key location in a Moria campaign — it 
gives the Company a huge advantage in getting into all sorts 
of places, and ties them directly to the struggle against the 
Orc invaders and Durin’s Bane. At the same time, the Last 
Redoubt is so well hidden that no Orc or scavenger has dis -
covered it in a thousand years.
Finding the Last Redoubt, therefore, is a moment of grace 
— a stroke of blessed good fortune that gives the Player- heroes 
a chance to complete the Quest of Moria. It is part of the fate 
of the Company that the Player- heroes find it, just as Bilbo’s 
finding the One Ring in the dark was no mere accident. How 
might you arrange events? Some options:
 ♦ A Player- hero (or a friendly Lore master character) 
who gets lost in Moria, or falls down a pit, or blindly 
flees foes might find themselves on the threshold of 
the Redoubt.
 ♦ Player- heroes with a suitable Virtue (High Destiny, 
 Broken Spells, Memory of Ancient Days, Foresight of their 
Kindred, Skill of the Eldar or similar) might have pro-
phetic dreams guiding them to this place.
 ♦ A Dwarven ghost or vision guides the Company here.
 ♦ Ancient Dwarven records hint that the Fifth Hall was 
especially defensible, but the way to it has been lost. 
The Player- heroes seek out the Fifth Hall and discover 
the Redoubt.
THE BONES OF NÁIN
If the Bones of Náin are given a proper burial, either brought 
to Erebor or another stronghold of the Dwarves, or interred 
in a tomb more fitting for a Dwarf of his rank, then all Player- 
heroes involved may remove 1 Shadow Point (or 3 Shadow 
Points for Dwarves).
THE RING OF KEYS
This huge ring of keys is a magic item in its own 
right. Dozens of ornate keys hang from a perfect 
circle of Mithril. These keys unlock all the Doors 
of the Dwarrow  delf. The enchantment of opening 
and returning bestowed on the ring means that 
the right key is always to hand, and ensures the 
ring cannot be lost or stolen — if taken, it appears 
again in the possession of its rightful owner at 
some point later. The ring can only be removed if 
the bearer is slain or voluntarily hands control over 
to another. Additionally, looking through the circle 
of metal reveals hidden doors and compartments 
— it bears a Blessing of SCAN .
The Player- hero who takes the ring from Náin’s 
grave becomes the new Key-  bearer. Among the 
doors opened by the Ring of Keys:
 ♦ THE EAST-  GATE (see page 81 , Famous 
Landmark): This is a large and heavy iron 
key, very old and solid.
 ♦ THE DIMRILL DOOR  (see page 77 , Hid -
den Landmark): A much smaller key of 
Mithril, with the number 17 written upon in.
 ♦ THE SECRET CLEFT  (see page 126 , Hidden 
Landmark): Another Mithril key, this one 
marked with the crown of Durin.
 ♦ THE VAULT OF URUKTHARBUN  (see page 
106, Obscure Landmark): An immensely 
ornate key with a handle of gold.
 ♦ THE ARMOURIES OF THE THIRD DEEP  (see 
page 151 , Obscure Landmark): A key of 
steel, marked with the sign of crossed axes.
 ♦ THE CITY GATE  (see page 133 , Obscure 
Landmark): Similar to the East- gate key, but 
clearly newer in design.
 ♦ THE CITADEL OF THE RING-  SMITHS  (see 
page 141 , Hidden Landmark): Not a key 
at all, but the Ring of Keys itself counts as a 
magic ring.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 100 =====

CHAPTER 5
96
The Dwarrowdelf
‘This is the great realm and city of the Dwarrow delf.  
And of old it was not darksome, but full of light and splendour.’
 
his is Durin’s city, the capital of the Dwarves since 
the Elder Days, and in its day it was great indeed. 
The city was never a populous one, for the Dwarves 
were always few in number, but they worked with-
out cease, and the Dwarrow delf is far larger than its popula -
tion might imply. They built a city of monuments and galleries. 
Everywhere a traveller’s gaze fell, there would be another 
towering statue, another many- pillared hall of stone, another 
magnificent civic chamber.
Now, it is all one great tomb.
It was here that the fight against Durin’s Bane was fiercest, 
the slaughter bloodiest. Many hundreds of Dwarves fell here, 
cut down with a sword of flame, trapped in the darkness as 
the lamps failed and the doors were held shut by eldritch 
sorcery. Afterwards, when the Orcs occupied the city, they 
defiled the place, toppling statues and scrawling their crude 
insults across the faces of the monuments.
The complexity of the Dwarrow delf makes this region 
a labyrinth. Stairs and pathways run in every direction; 
one corridor might open into a hall so high- ceilinged that 
clouds form within it, while another twists into a maze of 
little alcoves and passageways, or into a region of natural 
caves — like an underground parkland, with stalagmites 
instead of trees.
The Caves of  
Thrym Thistle beard 
- famous -
RUMOUR
“Oh, the beauty of Moria at its height! The glades of flowering stone! 
The Dwarves built a garden under the mountain!”
OLD LORE
The Cave- gardens of King Thrym were one of the wonders of the 
ancient world. Dwarves exploring the tunnels of the Misty Moun -
tains found a vast natural cavern, and made it into a beautiful 
garden, wild and wet and bright. They sowed herbs and rare plants 
here too, so that wounded Dwarves might find solace.
Background
One of the earliest kings of Khazad- dûm discovered this war-
ren of huge natural caverns within the Misty Mountains. The 
Dwarves transformed these caves into a grand park, where 
mushrooms the size of great trees and lush greenswards 
of moss spread out beneath a stone sky. Amid the gardens, 
they built towers and plazas, follies and monuments, for the 
Dwarves hold that beauty shaped and considered is beauty 
magnified, and do not see joy in untamed things.
Once, crystal lamps and light- shafts dug by Durin’s Folk 
illuminated the caves; now, they are almost lightless. Melt-  
water streams now cascade from the weed- choked light shafts 
to splash on the cave floor below and the gardens are partially 
flooded with stagnant water. Blind cave fish swim through the 
streams. The Orcs mutter that other things also lurk in the 
dark waters, things that wriggled up from the uttermost depths.
Light filters down from a gap in the ceiling. The caves 
are far underground, but there is a natural cleft in the side 
of Silvertine (Thrym’s Cleft, the Dwarves called it) directly 
above the caves, so the ancient builders needed only widen 
the bottom of that ravine. In previous eras, there were great 
mirrors of silver and crystal to gather more light from the 
surface and reflect it into the gardens, but those mirrors are 
broken or overgrown.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 101 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
97
The caves are mostly on the Second Deep, two levels below 
the Gates; high causeways and bridges cross over the drowned 
gardens below. The Caves of Thrym are a good place to rest 
and hide; find an island or a half- flooded tower and take 
refuge there, sustaining yourself on fish, bats and lake- weed, 
and you can survive for months — until the twilight and the 
constant dripping of water drives you mad.
Locations
1. CAVE-GARDENS
The gardens are now either dead or riotously overgrown. 
Some plants thrived after the fall of Moria, and grew far 
beyond their appointed sections. Others perished for lack of 
care or light. The gardens are a wilderness now. Mosses and 
ferns cluster around the few patches of wan sunlight that fil -
ter down from Thrym’s Cleft. In the lightless sections of the 
garden, mushrooms and slimes have feasted on the rotting 
plants and now rule where flowers and trees once held sway.
There is enough edible food here to sustain travellers 
in the ruin, allowing expeditions to replenish their supplies.
2. TOWER OF THRYM
The Garden- palace of Thrym Thistle beard stands on a rise 
overlooking the gardens. The tower is a spike of stone, and 
is now surrounded by a forest of huge toadstools the size of 
mighty oak trees. The Orcs believe it to be a haunted place 
and do not go there. The mushrooms are eerie but not dan-
gerous. The interior of the tower is more perilous — rare 
plants were stored here, and one has sprouted and taken over. 
It is a blood- drinking vine from the far land of Khand, and 
it feasts on anyone who trespasses in the tower.
The Blood-vine
The vine is no natural plant; it may be that the unquiet 
spirit of King Thrym inhabits it, and it seeks vengeance on 
those who despoiled his garden — or perhaps it is more 
akin to a Huorn, a spirit of the wild wood stranded in this 
distant cave.
BLOOD-VINE
Hungry, Mindless
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
50
MIGHT
2
RESOLVE
6
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Whipping Vines 3 (6/14, Drain*)
* The attack seizes the target (identically to the Seize 
Special Damage), then drains its blood at the end of 
each round the target remains seized, inflicting a Pierc -
ing Blow and a moderate Endurance loss from poison 
damage (a severe one if the target is Wounded).
FELL ABILITIES:  Craven.  The Blood-  vine is immobile, but 
if reduced to 0 Resolve, it withdraws into the cracks of 
the stone and ceases to attack.
Fear of Fire.  The Blood-  vine loses 1 Resolve at the 
start of each round it is engaged in close combat with an 
adversary wielding a torch or other burning items.
Hideous Toughness . When an attack inflicts dam -
age to the Blood-  vine that would cause it to go to zero 
Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if the 
Blood-  vine is still alive, its Endurance score is set back at 
half its maximum rating. This Fell Ability does not work 
against Endurance loss from fire.
Thick Hide.  Spend 1 Resolve to gain (2d)  on a Pro -
tection roll.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 102 =====

CHAPTER 5
98
3. THRYM’S TOMB
King Thrym so loved his caves that he chose to be entombed 
here at the top of his tower. He was buried in a seated posture, 
looking out at the gardens. A hollow statue of the late king 
contains his bones, and the statue was made with gaps in the 
chin so a living thistle- plant might grow from it, making the 
king’s nickname an epitaph. Unfortunately, the Blood- vine 
has taken root there instead.
If the plant is destroyed, then the Company may take 
Thrym’s Eye, an ancient treasure that was entombed with 
the king’s remains.
THRYM’S EYE
Thrym’s Eye is a necklace with a sapphire ‘eye’. It 
carries with it a Blessing of SCAN , granting its wearer 
keen senses. It glows with a faint blue light. Fur -
thermore, when the wearer sleeps, they may dream 
that they are the statue of King Thrym looking out 
over his gardens — allowing the wearer to spy on 
movements within the cave, and even eavesdrop 
on conversations there. The wearer might see the 
Goblins from Goblin Village in the fish ponds, or 
spot poor Buna scavenging for food (see below).
THE CAVES OF  
THRYM THISTLE BEARD
 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
1
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 103 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
99
4. FISH PONDS
The ornamental fountains that sang amid the glades are silent 
and still now (though they might be re- awakened if the High 
Cistern is opened, see page 124), but pools of stagnant water 
and sodden moss- bogs cover much of the gardens. Cave fish 
live here, hunted eagerly by Goblins who climb up the Lad -
der from Goblin Village. The Goblins also believe there’s a 
giant Fish- monster in the depths who hunts them. It is likely a 
combination of Goblin superstition and distorted rumours of 
the Blood- vine in Thrym’s Tower — unless something crawled 
up from The Deeps.
5. GOBLIN-LADDER
The Goblin- ladder is a well travelled route through Moria, 
leading down and down to Goblin Village (see page 154). 
Hunting parties of Goblins regularly climb up here to hunt 
in Thrym’s Garden. They bring a tribute of fish to Malech’s 
Fortress (see page 110).
Despite the name, it is not a ladder — it is a series of stairs, 
corridors, shafts, caves and crawls, but the Goblins keep it clear 
of obstacles and have installed ropes and footholds for flappy 
Goblin- feet in the trickier sections. It is easy to follow the path.
6. HOUSE OF HEALING
In ancient days, the Dwarves maintained a house of healing 
here, where their wounded might find rest and succour amid 
living things. While the Dwarves lack the magical healing 
arts of the Elves, they applied their craft to medicine with 
the same diligence they showed in other fields. At its height, 
the surgeons of Moria had great knowledge of anatomy, and 
wielded the keenest blades and scalpels.
The House of Healing also had greenhouses and herb 
gardens where medicinal plants were cultivated.
A thorough search ( SCAN ) of the house discovers some 
old anatomical texts of interest to scholars (they count as 
Useful Items for HEALING , but only when treating Dwarves; 
in addition, they are written in Khuzdul).
7. LAST LAMPS OF MORIA
The Dwarves hung magical lamps throughout their city, and 
blazing light drove away the dark. Those lamps are all dark 
and broken now — all but the two that hang in a corner of 
the gardens. These lamps still glow. One sheds moonlight, 
the other warm sunlight. They wax and wane in a curious 
sequence, their lights mingling at times. Surface plants cluster 
around these lamps, trees and flowers that have never seen 
the sun thriving in this blessed alcove.
How the lamps continue to function would be a mystery to 
their makers — but there are other powers in the world, and 
some love plants more than they love the creations of Aulë.
8. BUNA’S HIDING PLACE
Buna is a Dwarf who was captured by Goblins on the Dimrill 
Stair, and carried away down to Goblin Village as a prisoner. 
She escaped a few days before the Company discover the 
Cave, and has taken refuge in the gardens. She found a little 
cave to hide in, and has gathered food and water while she 
plans her escape.
If the Player- heroes find her, she begs them to help her 
escape. She knows the way down to Goblin Village (see page 
154) and can tell the Player- heroes about other key land -
marks like the King’s Hall (see page 100 ) or the Vault of 
Uruk tharbun (see page 106).
What was Buna doing in Moria? She is a servant of one 
of the possible Patrons described in Chapter 2 — likely Daza 
(see page 19) or Fróra (see page 17). Her master sent her 
to survey the Dimrill Stair, and she was taken unawares by 
Goblins. Use Buna to set up that Patron as an ally — or rival 
— for the Player- heroes.
Buna, Unlucky Treasure Hunter
Buna’s kin are kingless Dwarves, who have forgotten their 
home and lineage and now wander the roads of Eriador, 
surviving as tinsmiths. By nature, Buna is practical and resil -
ient; however, her capture by Goblins has so dismayed her 
that she believes Moria should be left to the Orcs and the 
Shadow, and that only a fool would remain in these halls 
for any longer than necessary.
As an optional twist — Buna was branded by the Orcs 
of Udûn, and is under a magical compulsion to lead the 
Player- heroes to the Udûn-  temple (see page 161 ).
OCCUPATION:  Wandering Treasure- hunter
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Rustic, Wary
9. THRYM’S CLEFT
The cleft in the cave roof is a natural gap in the rock that 
permits sunlight and rainwater to filter down from the sur -
face. A traveller wandering the slopes above has little chance 
of finding the cleft, as it is hidden in a steep fold of the 
mountain. Only the finest mountaineer could climb up to 
the cleft, and would then be faced with an equally perilous 
descent into the dark. However, an Eagle could conceivably 
deliver a company of heroes to the lip of the cleft, although 
they would then have to make their own way down the chasm. 
Traversing the cleft requires a Daunting (Resistance 9) Skill 
Endeavour using ATHLETICS .
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 104 =====

CHAPTER 5
100
Schemes and Troubles
THE HUNT FOR BUNA
The Goblins want their prisoner Buna back. (There is still 
plenty of work left in her strong Dwarven frame!) When they 
realise that she must have fled up the Goblin- ladder, they 
pursue her and search the caves. Player- heroes exploring the 
caves may run into the Goblin hunting party (assume three 
Goblin Archers per Player- hero).
POISONED BLOSSOMS
At some point during Moria’s long abandonment, a band of 
adventurers dared enter the long dark of Moria in search of 
the fabled treasures of the Vault of Uruktharbun (see page 
106). They were exposed to the poisons of Angolath there 
(see page 109), and stumbled through the Dwarrow delf in 
search of the rumoured House of Healing in the Gardens of 
King Thistle beard. Alas, they perished before they reached 
their goal, and now a half- dozen skeletons lie amid the mossy 
groves, bleached bones poking out eerily amongst the green.
A search of the remains discovers a hand- drawn map show-
ing the location of the Vault.
REPAIRING THE MIRRORS
The mirrors around Thrym’s Cleft could be restored to bring 
light and life back to the garden. To do so, the Player- heroes 
would have to climb up to the mountain slopes, locate the 
cleft from the far side, and then polish and restore the mir -
rors. Doing so would flood this great cave with daylight, mak-
ing it a sanctuary from those who Hate Sunlight.
The King’s Hall 
- famous -
A King he was on carven throne 
In many pillared halls of stone 
With golden roof and silver floor 
And runes of power upon the door.
RUMOUR
“The Dwarf- kings of old were fabulously rich, and the richest of ‘em 
were the Longbeards, the clan of Durin. Now the king of the Long-
beards, he built himself the most fabulous throne room you can 
imagine, and there the Dwarves ate gold and drank diamonds, if 
you believe the tales.”
OLD LORE
“It was Durin II who built the King’s Hall, and it remained the 
throne room of his line for many generations, until the death of 
his heir Durin VI. The chambers adjoining the King’s Hall may 
have been of even greater import. There was the Hall of Judgement 
where Dwarven criminals were judged, the Hall of Seven Thrones 
where the Houses gathered — and it is even said that the Dwarf- 
kings had a way of communing with their maker Aulë himself. If 
true, then surely such a treasure would be near the King’s Hall.”
Background
Built in the days of Durin II, this was the throne room of 
Khazad- dûm for many thousands of years — and in every one 
of those years, the Dwarves made it ever more glorious. The 
throne was of Mithril and gold, the ceiling a glorious dome 
of black marble studded with golden stars, the floor of stone 
polished so bright it gleamed like a great gemstone. Here 
the harps never fell silent, nor were the tongues of courtiers 
and advisors ever stilled. Here the kings of Durin’s line ruled 
until Durin’s Bane arose.
The Orcs fear the King’s Hall, and have not looted it 
as thoroughly as other parts of the city. That is because the 
death- curse of Durin VI lies upon it, and that is no small thing.
Locations
1. KING’S ROAD
Know, stranger, that you approach the throne room of the 
King of Khazad- dûm! Be awed by his wealth and power! 
Behold the might of Durin’s Folk!
It is said that the King’s road was made so wide and lofty 
not merely to overawe visitors, but as a challenge to the Drag-
ons. Even in Durin’s Day, the spawn of Morgoth troubled the 
world, and had invaded and consumed some of the lesser 
Dwarf- halls in the north of the world, not to mention the 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 105 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
101
fabled Elven- city of Nargothrond. By making the King’s Road 
so large, Durin declared that any wyrm was welcome to try 
the strength of its scales against Dwarven axes!
But it was another creature of the Enemy that brought 
ruin to Durin’s Halls. Now, the King’s Road is a path of 
scorched rubble and Goblin- traps.
2. GREAT ATRIUM
The Great Atrium was likewise despoiled. The crystal lamps 
that once hung here are broken, the golden statues brought 
down.
Two of the doors — the ones leading to the Hall of Seven 
Thrones and the Hall of Judgement — are intact. The door to 
the King’s Hall was smashed into pieces, but not by any axe or 
hammer- blow. It was sorcery that shattered the King’s Door, and 
a search of the fragments discovers several oddly intact pieces 
that bear runes of power (SCAN  roll, one intact rune found, 
plus one per Success icon  rolled). The spells protecting the 
King’s Hall were mighty indeed, and withstood the wrath of the 
Balrog for a time. Even broken, they still have power (see box).
3. KING’S HALL
Entering the King’s Hall is disconcerting after so long exploring 
the despoiled ruins and looted chambers of the rest of Moria. 
This hall has not been touched by the Orcs; gold and beautiful 
things still glitter in the torchlight. If looted of all its treasures, 
this counts as a Greater Hoard, but halve the number of Magical 
Treasure rolls and double the Treasure Value per Player- hero.
That is not to say the Hall is undamaged. The skeletons 
of Dwarves lie along the walls, and there is a huge burn mark 
that has consumed much of the silver floor. The throne of 
Durin, too, is toppled and scorched as if some gigantic blast 
of fire struck it and whoever was sitting there. Of King Durin 
VI, nothing remains but ash.
Ash and fury. See The Death- curse of Durin VI, on page 103.
BROKEN RUNES
The remains of the King’s Door can be used to 
magically seal a doorway or other portal. Servants 
of the Enemy who have the Dreadful Spells Fell 
Ability can break the enchantment by spending 
3 Hate.
Each rune can only be used once.
THE KING’S HALL
1
2
3
4
5
6
1
4
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 106 =====

CHAPTER 5
102
4. ROYAL CHAMBERS
The private chambers and audience room of the King. These, 
too, have been spared looting thanks to the Death- curse, so 
there are many things of worth to be taken here (a regular 
Greater Hoard).
There is also a concealed compartment in one wall that 
contains a chest made of gold and Mithril. Elvish runes on 
the chest read THE WORK OF THE PEOPLE OF THE JEWEL- SMITHS 
AND THE MASTERS OF THE CITADEL. Delicate etchings on the 
sides of the chest depict a Middle- earth transformed — Arda 
Restored, a landscape of towering forests and great mountains. 
The capital city of Hollin and an underground citadel in West 
Moria are both depicted.
A successful LORE  roll guesses this is the very chest in 
which the Seven Rings were brought to Moria and distrib -
uted to the Seven Lords.
5. HALL OF SEVEN THRONES
There are seven Dwarven lineages, seven fathers of the Dwar-
ven people — and seven seats here, for seven lords. This cham-
ber, rarely used even in the days of Moria’s greatness, was built 
for the gatherings of the Dwarf- lords or their ambassadors, 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 107 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
103
when matters of import to all the Dwarf- folk had to be dis -
cussed. (According to certain scholars of Ring-  lore — the 
last time the Dwarf- lords gathered here, they were visited by 
an emissary from the surface, and he gave them the Seven).
By ancient and unbreakable tradition, the chamber is 
sacrosanct. Violence is forbidden here — and the power of 
this place is such that even a creature of Shadow is bound. 
Player- heroes who break this enchanted truce commit a Mis-
deed worth 3 points of Shadow.
A map on the wall of this chamber depicts all of Middle- 
earth, assembled from the accounts of Dwarven wanderers 
and explorers — and Númenorean sea- rovers — over many 
centuries (the Dwarves still pass into the east, under the 
shadow of Sauron, so they have better knowledge of the 
lands east and south of Gondor than the Men of the North).
6. HALL OF JUDGEMENT
The Eighth Hall of Khazad- dûm was the Hall of Judgement, for 
it was here that the kings passed sentences on criminals and 
traitors. Ranks of stone benches line the walls, for punishments 
were always public. The worst punishment for a Dwarf was 
banishment, because the exiled were deemed houseless and 
nameless — their secret Khuzdul names were stripped from 
them, and they had to find new names as Petty- dwarves. The 
stripped names were inscribed on sheets of lead and kept in 
vaults built into the floor here. These lead plates are value -
less — except to the descendants of those long- dead criminals, 
for it is the belief among the Dwarves that if a plate is melted 
down, the confiscated name is returned and the criminal’s 
standing is restored. Even after a thousand years, some dis -
graced Dwarves dream of reclaiming their ancestor’s honour.
The Orcs have turned this hall into a fighting- pit, forcing 
prisoners to fight to the death. A sturdy palisade surrounds 
a central open space. The bones of captured prisoners lie 
scattered about the floor.
Schemes and Troubles
THE DEATH-CURSE OF DURIN VI
The King’s curse afflicts anyone who enters the King’s Hall 
itself — Dwarf or Orc, Man or Elf (and Hobbit too, oh 
rules- lawyer…).
Orcs, or anyone who has stolen from the Dwarves, have 
a vision of the Balrog’s flames consuming the King’s Halls 
in an inferno. They gain 3 points of Shadow (Sorcery) and 
suffer a grievous Endurance loss from fire damage. Lesser 
Orcs are so overcome by the curse they may burst into flame 
or hurl themselves into the burning depths.
Others have a vision of the King’s Hall as it was on the day 
the Balrog came. They imagine that they were in the hall as 
flames licked the door and the King and his court prepared 
for their doom; they gain 3 points of Shadow (Dread) as they 
‘remember’ the Balrog blasting into the hall and slaughter-
ing all the Dwarves. Those who succeed on their Shadow test 
‘remember’ the King entrusting a heavy ring of keys and a 
small black pouch to them, and commanding them to bring 
them to ‘the new king’. This command lingers even after the 
vision fades; the Player- heroes gain 3 Adventure points if they 
find that ring of keys (see page 95) and bring it to Durin’s 
heir (which in this age is Dáin Ironfoot).
FIGHTING FOR FREEDOM
Prisoners captured by the Moria- orcs are brought first to the 
Ledge of Woe (see page 158). Most are then pressed into 
service in the mines, or given to the Orcs of Udûn as sacri -
fices. However, especially entertaining prisoners — either 
ones who look like they can fight, or look like they can give 
good sport — are brought to the Eighth Hall, where they are 
made to fight each other.
THE KING’S DOOR
Dwarven legends claim that there is a door in the 
Hall of Seven Thrones that leads to the Endless Stair. 
Such a thing is absurd — the Endless Stair has been 
lost for an Age of the world (if indeed it was ever 
made) and even if it does exist, the Stair was said 
to lie leagues west of the Dwarrow  delf, not in its 
very heart. It is patently impossible that such a door 
exists — but those same legends hold that the door 
shall be found when the Seven are gathered again.
IMRI’S TABLET
A successful SCAN  roll discovers an oddity — a fresh 
lead plate. It is clearly a recent addition, and was 
not made using the same techniques as the others. 
It looks like someone took a sheet of lead, clipped 
off a square, then scratched the runes for IMRI. 
This plate was made in a fit of self- loathing by the 
traitorous Dwarf Imri (see page 113 ).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 108 =====

CHAPTER 5
104
The Chamber of Mazarbul 
- obscure -
The Chamber was lit by a wide shaft high in the further eastern wall; it slanted 
upwards and, far above, a small square patch of blue sky could be seen…
RUMOUR
“The Dwarves love nothing more than well- organised records. Every 
Dwarven citadel had a chamber of records, and the record- hall of 
Khazad- dûm was especially large.”
OLD LORE
The Chamber of Mazarbul lay high in the western portion of the 
Dwarrow delf, north of the Road. All the important records of the 
city were kept there.
Background
In days to come, of course, this will be first the seat, then the 
tomb, of Balin, son of Fundin during his brief reign as Lord 
of Moria. Presently, the chamber is relatively intact.
The Dwarves of yore knew secret methods for preparing 
and preserving paper, making it hard to tear. They preferred 
engravings in stone or metal for important records, but they 
were also a diligent and precise folk, with a complex and 
well- organised bureaucracy. Hobbits may delight in genealo-
gies and family histories, but the stony hearts of Dwarves are 
set aflame by the thought of great ledgers of accounts and 
debts, of careful and complex legal arrangements, and of 
lengthy descriptions of the works of past masters.
This chamber of records was not the only such archive 
in Khazad- dûm — there were libraries and other records in 
other parts of the city. However, the Chamber of Mazarbul 
was the most comprehensive, and notably contained drawings 
and records of all the great civic buildings and fortifications 
built over the centuries.
Locations
1. THE TWENTY-FIRST HALL
The Twenty- first Hall of the North End is a great cavernous 
chamber, a strategic location in Khazad- dûm, as it is close to 
the Road, the stairs to the upper levels, and the old city proper. 
THE CHAMBER OF MAZARBUL
1
2
3
4
5
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 109 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
105
A steady draught of chill air blows from the east, and disperses 
through the passages that branch out from it. Sounds echo 
in the hollow vastness, and darkness reigns supreme at night. 
On a clear morning, light shines in a long pale beam through 
a shaft near the roof, to the east.
If the Player- heroes risk a little light when it’s dark, or wait 
for the morning, they see a vast roof far above their heads, 
and many stone pillars. The walls of the hall are polished 
black stone, smooth as glass. Four black arches lead out of 
the hall in all directions. The northern corridor leads to the 
Chamber of Mazarbul.
Different bands of Orcs have struggled for control of the 
hall over the last few decades, and the corridors leading to 
it are littered with broken bones. Today, the master of the 
Twenty- first Hall is a Moria- orc named Hagrot, but his reign 
here may not last long. The Mordor- orcs of the Mountain 
Galleries (see page 122) intend to seize the Hall soon.
2. WESTERN CORRIDOR
The Western corridor is narrow and defensible — made more 
so by barricades and rubble placed at choke- points. Hagrot’s 
Orcs rarely watch this approach, as there is less traffic this way. 
However, when Malech’s forces patrol the Road — or hunt 
intruders in West Moria, it is here that they muster.
3. WELL AND STOREROOMS
The Twenty- first Hall is high up on the Fifth level, close to 
the surface, so the well here is fed by fresh meltwater and is 
safe to drink.
4. THE CHAMBER OF MAZARBUL
Player- heroes coming from the Twenty- first Hall find a door-
way to the right, tall and flat- topped. A stone door is still on its 
hinges, and opens on a vast, square chamber. A shaft on the 
eastern wall illuminates the room. A door with an iron ring in its 
middle opens under the shaft, leading to a long flight of steps.
Many niches are cut in the rock of the walls, along the 
sides of the chamber. Large chests of wood bound in iron sit 
in the niches, and hold many scrolls and books of records. 
The Orcs have smashed a few of these, looking for treasure, 
but gave up when they only found paper.
There is little worth looting in the Chamber, from an 
Orc’s perspective, so other than a few smashed chests, the 
records are still intact. If the Company recovers useful records 
and drawings from the chamber (with a LORE  or SCAN  roll), 
from the next Fellowship Phase they can perform the Study 
the Records of Mazarbul undertaking (see box on next page).
The stone door is so sturdy it could hold back a Cave-  
troll — for a little while.
Hagrot the Sneak
Hagrot is an ambitious wretch of an Orc, intent on rising in 
influence. All the Orcs know that war is coming, even if they 
are unable to say what this war will involve or what enemy 
they will be fighting — but they were made as weapons of 
the Enemy, and as Sauron’s dreadful Eye looks north across 
Middle- earth, the Orcs instinctively respond by growing in 
numbers, strength and ferocity. Hagrot’s plan is to become 
a leader in the coming war by gathering information about 
human settlements and fortifications in Eriador. By night, 
he has spied on Tharbad and even dared sneak into Swan -
fleet, and he has heard rumours of distant, half- mythical 
lands like Bree and Lond Daer.
Hagrot is related to Granny Goblin (see page 155 ), 
the matriarch of Goblin Village. Now Granny Goblin has 
a veritable army of grand- nephews, and while Hagrot 
has risen high in Malech’s faction, he is not necessarily 
her favourite relative. Hagrot tries to curry favour with 
his grandmother by sending her gifts stolen from the sur -
face; for her part, Granny Goblin might support Hagrot if 
she thinks he has got a good chance of replacing one of 
Malech’s lieutenants like Yagul (see page 112 ) or Grim -
nar (see page 158 ).
Note that if Hagrot were slain, Granny Goblin would 
take that as a personal offence, and take bloody ven -
geance upon his murderers “as the goblins of Goblin Town 
did upon the slayers of the Great Goblin”  (at least, that is 
the way they tell the story).
Wider than he is tall, Hagrot is a muscular Orc. He is 
faster than he looks, and the swiftness of his scimitar has 
surprised many rivals.
HAGROT THE SNEAK
Ambitious, Sneaky
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
1
HATE
6
PARRY
+3
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Scimitar 3 (3/16),  
Bow of Horn 3 (3/14, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Yell of Triumph. Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
Orc- poison. If an attack results in a Wound, the tar -
get is also poisoned.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 110 =====

CHAPTER 5
106
5. EASTERN STAIRS
The door with the iron ring leads to a steep, lightless stair -
case that descends to the Fourth Level. Unlike the western 
approach, Hagrot keeps Orcs watching this approach, ready to 
sound the alarm. He has also barricaded the top of the stairs 
with barrels full of Goblin- mischief that can be pushed down 
the steps to explode below, showering anyone approaching 
the Chamber of Mazarbul with nails and other debris (counts 
as a severe loss of Endurance due to fire if caught in the blast).
Schemes and Troubles
HAGROT’S BAND
Hagrot’s band of Orcs are nominally loyal to Malech One-  
eye, but rarely pay him tribute. He has got a mixed retinue 
of 1 Orc Guard, 2 Orc Soldiers and 2 Goblin Archers for 
every Player- hero, but some of those may be out west near the 
Hollin Gate at any time. Hagrot is eager to take prisoners — 
partly to deny Yagul any prizes, but also so he can interrogate 
outsiders about the lay of the surface lands.
Captured Player- heroes who fall into Hagrot’s clutches 
may be able to convince the ambitious Orc to let them go 
free in exchange for useful information — or even persuade 
him to help them in assassinating Malech.
THE RAID FROM THE MOUNTAIN GALLERIES
Har (see page 122 ) has spied on the area and knows the 
layout of the Twenty- first Hall. His plan is to send some of 
his smaller Orcs climbing down the air- shaft, while others 
attack from the Western Corridor. His intent is to force 
Hagrot to surrender and switch sides; a spy in Malech’s 
camp would be an even more useful asset than the Twenty-  
first Hall itself.
The Vault of Uruktharbun 
- obscure -
Are there piles of jewels and gold lying about here still?
RUMOUR
“The Dwarves piled all their fabulous wealth in one big treasure-  
hoard, but never looked at it? Why? Because everyone knows 
Dwarves are greedy and love gold, and there was so much gold in 
that pile that if a Dwarf looked at it, they’d be driven mad by the 
desire to possess it all.”
OLD LORE
“The Treasure vault of Khazad- dûm was guarded by a family of 
Dwarves who were trained from youth to be keepers of the hoard. Nei-
ther burglar nor Dragon ever stole so much as a single gold coin from 
the hoard of Moria, for it was guarded by an impenetrable maze.”
Background
The Treasure Vault of Uruktharbun was a wonder of the 
ancient world. The Dwarves of yore laid mighty spells upon 
the chamber, and they filled the vault with profound darkness. 
No light may shine in the vault, not torchlight nor candlelight 
nor crystal lamp — save perhaps some greater magic, like 
the light of a Silmaril of Fëanor. Inside, the vault is a maze 
of corridors, and many of the chambers contain cunning 
death- traps. In Durin’s day, the vault- keepers were a heredi -
tary caste, trained from a young age to navigate the lightless 
halls and return with the treasures sought. Some accounts say 
they grew their beards especially long, and used them like a 
spool of thread to find their way back to the doors.
The Orcs have tried to loot the Treasure Vault many times, 
of course. When they could not force the doors or evade the 
traps, they tried tunnelling, and now the whole complex is 
like an apple that has been gnawed by innumerable worms. 
The combination of ‘impenetrable darkness’ and ‘tunnels 
bored at random’ makes any exploration a nerve- wracking 
and usually fatal experience.
NEW FELLOWSHIP UNDERTAKING: 
STUDY THE RECORDS OF MAZARBUL
This undertaking works like Ponder Storied and 
Figured Maps , but gives a +2 bonus to the Feat 
die instead. It only applies to journeys in Moria. 
Furthermore, at the Lore master’s discretion, it 
may reveal the location of hitherto Hidden or 
Obscure Landmarks.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 111 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
107
Locations
1. OUTER VAULT DOOR
The Outer Door of Uruktharbun is a massive steel gate, with 
the anvil- and- stars of Durin engraved upon it. There is a sin-
gle keyhole, hidden in the central star. One key was held by 
the King, and now lies in the Last Redoubt (see page 95). 
The other key was the property of the Vault- keeper family. If 
it still exists, then it likely lies in the remains of their man -
sion nearby, or has ended up in the hoard of some Orc; the 
Vault- keepers all perished when the Balrog rose. Either key 
can be used to open the Vault.
Without one of these two keys, the door cannot be opened. 
The Vault can still be entered through the Goblin- tunnels. 
Some accounts claim that if the keys are used correctly, the 
spells of darkness guarding the Vault may be temporarily 
lifted; other stories say that the Vault- keepers possessed spe-
cial lamps whose flames could illuminate the maze.
2. GOBLIN-TUNNELS
A tangle of tunnels surrounds the vault, approaching it from 
every angle. The Goblins have bored through the walls, down 
through the ceiling, up through the floors, even though the 
Vault is set into nigh- impenetrable granite at the heart of the 
Silvertine. Player- heroes may squeeze through these tunnels 
to enter the vault, but there are always watchful Goblins down 
here who will scurry away to report the presence of intruders 
(raising the Eye Awareness by 1).
3. MAZE OF DARKNESS
A labyrinth of impenetrable darkness, filled with dead ends, 
death- traps, Orc tunnels and treasure (see Navigating the Maze, 
on page 109).
4. LESSER VAULTS
Most of the lesser vaults have been looted over the centu -
ries, or were hastily emptied before Moria was destroyed. If 
the Player- heroes are lucky enough to find a vault, roll a 
Success die:
1 Trap
2–3 Empty
4–5 Lesser Hoard
6 Greater Hoard
THE VAULT  
OF URUKTHARBUN
1
4
4
4
4
4
4
7
2
5
8
3
6
9
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 112 =====

CHAPTER 5
108
5. INNER VAULT DOOR
The Inner Door is similar to the Outer Door, but instead of 
Durin’s anvil, on its middle has been set the skull of a Dragon, 
slain long ago in the chaotic years of the early Second Age. 
There are two keyholes, one in each eye socket, and both keys 
are needed to open the door. However, if the Player- heroes 
make a search (SCAN  roll), they may find the tunnel bored by 
Angolath to its lair. This tunnel is located above the lintel of the 
vault door, some fifteen feet above the floor, and it is thoroughly 
tainted by the monster’s poisonous leavings. Anyone climbing 
through the tunnel suffers a severe Endurance loss from poison.
The door can be opened from the inside without need -
ing the keys.
6. ANGOLATH’S LAIR
Angolath, the monstrous centipede, dwells in this vault (see 
next page). The centipede secretes a whitish- yellow powder 
from its furry body that is deadly poisonous; after a thousand 
years, everything in the inner vault is coated with a thick layer 
of toxic dust. Any movement in this chamber risks stirring 
up the poison. Player- heroes must make a STEALTH  roll to 
tread softly; those who fail suffer a severe Endurance loss 
from poison.
7. KING’S COFFERS
The King’s Coffers contain a Marvellous Hoard of Treasure, 
although the vault lays a protective enchantment on this gold 
— anyone who takes it from the Dwarves is cursed so that the 
work of their hands brings them only despair. Anyone who 
keeps so much as a coin of this stolen gold without permission 
is committing a Misdeed worth 3 Shadow points.
8. MITHRIL VAULT
Mithril for trade was kept in this vault. The Dwarves were 
never able to stockpile much Mithril — between their own 
works, and the desire of the Elves of Eregion for the precious 
metal, only a small amount was left over for trade with other 
lands. Still, a few ingots of True Mithril worth 30 Treasure 
points lie here, lost in the dark.
9. VAULT OF TREASURES
Fabled treasures and relics of renown. The nature of the 
contents of this vault were known only to the Dwarf- kings of 
Durin’s line, but that did not stop wild speculation. Some say 
the vault contained a harp that sang, or a crystal sphere carved 
by Aulë himself that bestowed visions of Arda Perfected on 
those who looked within, or an enchanted Necklace drawn 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 113 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
109
up from the deeps, or a magical pool that turned anything 
dipped in it to solid gold. Cynics say, though, that this vault 
was a trick to distract thieves, and that the only thing to be 
found here is another death- trap.
Certainly, key treasures like Durin’s Axe (see page 154) 
or the Circlet of Queen Edrys (see page 185) were never 
kept here.
Schemes and Troubles
NAVIGATING THE MAZE
Navigating the lightless maze requires a Skill Endeavour using 
EXPLORE , SCAN , or whatever other skills the Player- heroes 
can justify. Reaching a Lesser Vault is Laborious (Resistance 
6); reaching the Inner Door is Daunting (Resistance 9). The 
time limit is equal to 3; if the time limit is exceeded, then 
Angolath attacks. Player- heroes may extend the time limit 
with a STEALTH  roll: each success increases the time limit by 
1, plus 1 for each  icon rolled, while each failure decreases 
the time limit by 1.
If a roll fails, roll a Success die or pick one of the follow -
ing consequences:
1 Pit! One of the Company falls into a Goblin hole. 
Possibly, it is full of Goblins.
2–3 Lost! The Company takes a wrong turn and loses 1 
success from their total. If this reduces their total 
to 0, they end up back at the start of the maze — in 
any case the time limit is not reset.
4–5 Trap! The Company encounters a Dwarven trap of 
some sort (see below).
6 No Progress…  The Company makes no progress, 
but suffers no other penalty.
DWARVEN TRAPS
There are three forms of Dwarven traps inside the Vault.
 ♦ CONCEALED PITS:  The floor is not stone — it is a 
thin layer of clay over a pit. A Player- hero who encoun-
ters this trap must succeed either at an ATHLETICS  or 
AWARENESS  roll or suffer a grievous Endurance loss 
from falling.
 ♦ FALSE DOORS:  The ‘door’ actually supports a heavy 
stone block, and if opened, the stone falls on the 
intruder. A Player- hero who triggers this trap must 
succeed at an AWARENESS  roll or suffer the effects of a 
severe Endurance loss from falling.
 ♦ ONE- WAY DOORS:  The door slams shut behind the 
Player- hero, trapping them in an empty room. The 
door cannot be opened from inside; anyone outside 
can try to force the door open with ATHLETICS  rolls. 
Failing that, the Goblins will come by in a while to see 
what is for dinner…
The Centipede Angolath
The Vault has not been looted by the Orcs — although they 
have tried many times. Another monster, the gigantic cen -
tipede Angolath, has claimed the vault as its lair. Whether 
this creature was spawned in the vaults of Thangorodrim 
and carried south by the Balrog, or if it crawled up from 
the lightless depths below Moria, none can say.
Angolath emerges from holes gnawed in the walls of 
the vault to hunt for prey. The centipede does not attack 
immediately, but instead scuttles past intruders, brushing 
by their legs or crawling over the ceiling to catch their 
exposed faces, and letting the poison in its hairs weaken 
its victims before it feasts.
The creature has grown so huge it seems almost never-  
ending, a ceaseless parade of scuttling segments, each 
chitinous back bristling with poisonous hairs.
ANGOLATH
Sneaky, Swift
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
11
ENDURANCE
130
MIGHT
3
HATE
11
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Bite 3 (6/18, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Foul Dust.  Spend 1 Hate to inflict a mod -
erate Endurance loss from Poison to all Player- heroes in 
close combat stance.
Hideous Toughness.  Angolath is unaf fected by 
unarmed attacks. Additionally, when an attack inflicts 
damage to the creature that would cause it to go to zero 
Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if 
Angolath is still alive its Endurance score is set back at 
half its maximum rating.
Poison.  If an attack results in a Wound, the target is 
also poisoned (a grievous Endurance loss).
Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Thick Hide.  Spend 1 Hate to gain (2d)  on a Protec -
tion roll.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 114 =====

CHAPTER 5
110
The Fortress  
of Malech 
- obscure -
Amid the clamour a deep voice was raised in command.
RUMOUR
“Most of the Orcs of the Misty Mountains were killed in the Battle 
of Five Armies. There is a chance that Moria is still free — unless 
the rumours about a new Orc warlord claiming the place are true.”
OLD LORE
“In the heart of the Dwarrow delf, there was the Palace of Stairs, built 
into the wall of a huge cavern. Staircases ran up the wall, and great 
galleries and halls looked out upon the cave- city below.”
Background
Wisely is it said, uneasy lies the head that wears the crown. 
Malech One- eye is the Lord of Moria, the Great Chieftain of 
the Orcs in this region — and so he is consumed by fear, and 
spends his time plotting against his own followers. He fears 
attack from without and betrayal from within. His paranoia 
means that he cannot rest easily — he has made his den in the 
former Palace of Stairs, a defensible place riddled with secret 
passages, so his spies can move unseen and watch his own 
THE FORTRESS  
OF MALECH
1
5
9
2
4
10
3
7
11
6
8
12
13
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 115 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
111
followers. He plays his lieutenants against one another, deliber-
ately weakening them so none of them becomes strong enough 
to challenge him. The fortress is a maze full of guard- posts, and 
a complex system of keys, passwords and secret doors ensures 
that only properly vetted Orcs can reach the centre of the maze.
At the top of the fortress is Malech’s Den, a squalid small 
complex of chambers where the Orc- chieftain hides from 
his own followers. His treasury is also found there, a place 
where he has gathered much of the wealth of the upper city, 
including some sacks of Mithril. Malech dithers endlessly over 
this Mithril, unsure if he should send this tribute to Gund -
abad or to Mordor.
Locations
1. THE CAVE OF LIGHTS
This cavern is not so large as the fabled Caves of Thrym 
Thistle beard, but is still large enough to swallow the grand -
est palaces of Arnor and Gondor and lost Númenor and still 
have space to hold all the halls of the Elven- kings of old. The 
Fortress of Malech occupies only the western wall of the cave. 
The cave floor is a mix of broken grounds and pools of icy 
water, fed by mountain streams. Stalagmites glitter in the light 
of passing torches like towering candles.
Orcs patrol the cave regularly, though it is possible to 
sneak from shadow to shadow and avoid detection.
2. BROKEN LAMP
A Dwarven lamp of crystal hangs from a chain here. Once, 
it shone with such brilliance that the whole cave blazed with 
light, but it was broken long ago. A Player- hero with CRAFT  
who examines it (even from a distance) guesses it could be 
repaired and relit with a suitable Magical success.
3. GREATER STAIR
A wide stair leads up to the palace above. This was the ceremo-
nial entrance, where Dwarf- lords of old gathered in conclave, 
and heroes were honoured. Braziers that once blazed with 
sacred flames line the steps. The Orcs have added barricades 
and spikes to ward off intruders, and these stairs are always 
guarded by Malech’s minions. A password is demanded of any-
one who approaches; this lesser password is rarely changed, 
and is common knowledge among the Moria- orcs. (Right 
now, it is AZOG).
4. YAGUL’S HALLS
Yagul is Malech’s chief servant; he is master of the slave pits 
and oversees the day- to- day running of the fortress. His halls 
here are a miserable place where captured prisoners are 
interrogated, examined and judged before being assigned 
to some ghastly duty. Most are sent down to the Mines (see 
page 166 ), although those who might be useful servants 
are given to Imri the Traitor (see page 113 ). Those with 
potential value are held on the Ledge of Woe (see page 
158); those who do not seem useful in any capacity are 
usually given to the Udûn- orcs (see page 161) for burning. 
Non- orcish prisoners are a rare event; most of Yagul’s victims 
are Goblins who got in Malech’s way, or who wormed their 
way into Moria without permission.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 116 =====

CHAPTER 5
112
Yagul the Snatcher
Yagul is Malech’s right-  hand Orc; his role is to keep the 
mines supplied with workers (see page 166 ). When Yagul 
runs low on slaves, he leads raiding parties out of Moria. 
They snatch travellers on the Dimrill Stair, or from the scat -
tered farmsteads in Swanfleet, or in the Anduin Vale. Fail -
ing that, smaller Goblins will do. Yagul has become so infa -
mous in the lands near Moria that his name has passed into 
common parlance — “Be good,” parents tell their children, 
“or the Orc- snatcher will get you!”
Yagul prefers Dwarves to work the mines, for they are 
hardier than other folk, and know how to work in dark 
places — but there are few Dwarves to be caught these 
days, so he must make do with fragile, whiny Men. He is 
excessively malicious, even for an Orc.
Yagul knows that Malech’s hold on Moria is tenuous, 
and that sooner or later one of Malech’s vassals will attempt 
to overthrow the Great Chieftain. On that day, Yagul will 
be waiting in the shadows to snatch the traitor and skin 
them alive.
He expects to become Lord of Moria when Malech falls.
YAGUL
Cruel, Sneaky
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
30
MIGHT
2
HATE
6
PARRY
+3
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Broad- headed Spear 3 (5/16, 
Pierce), Scimitar 3 (3/16)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Great Leap.  Spend 1 Hate to attack any Player- hero 
in any combat stance, including Rearward.
Snake- like Speed.  Spend 1 Hate when targeted by 
an attack to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Yell of Triumph. Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
5. LESSER STAIR
The back stair up to the palace was for servants and Dwarf- 
merchants, and the nearest exit from the Cave of Lights leads 
down to storehouses in the Deeps (see page 150). Today, this 
stair is mostly unguarded — save for Uftak. The infamous 
brute makes his lair in a room above it.
6. UFTAK’S LAIR
Uftak’s Lair is as foul as any Troll- hole: the floor awash in 
bones, filthy bedding and other Orc- trash, with one key differ-
ence — on one wall is a display of weapons, all polished and 
honed to razor- sharpness. The bent blades of Orcs, the axes 
and hammers of the Dwarves, spears and swords of Mannish 
make, even an Elf- bow out of Lórien — Uftak delights in the 
tools of slaughter and dismemberment.
Brute Uftak
Uftak is a massive Orc, likely with some Trollish blood 
in him. He is certainly dumb as a Hill-  troll. He worships 
Malech as a living legend and would do anything for his 
chieftain, even die for him. Of course, he is more likely 
to kill for him — Malech uses Uftak as his enforcer and 
bully, and sends him to deal with any Orcs Malech sus -
pects of disloyalty. The one downside of this arrange -
ment — Uftak doesn’t have the wit to remember all of 
Malech’s passwords and security measures, so the big 
Orc must be allowed to pass through the guard posts 
without challenge.
If the alarm is raised, Uftak rushes straight to Malech’s 
side to defend him if he is not already present.
UFTAK
Huge, Tough
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
8
ENDURANCE
50
MIGHT
2
HATE
8
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Orc- axe 3 (5/18, Break Shield), 
Broad- headed Spear 3 (5/16, Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Dull- witted. Player- heroes can attempt 
a special combat task against Uftak while in Forward 
stance. The acting player makes a RIDDLE  roll as the main 
action for the round: on a success, Uftak loses 1 point of 
Hate, plus 1 point for each Success icon  rolled.
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts damage 
to Uftak that would cause him to go to zero Endurance, 
it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if Uftak is still 
alive, his Endurance score is set back at half its maximum 
rating.
Horrible Strength.  If the creature scores a Piercing 
Blow, spend 1 Hate to make the target’s Protection roll 
Ill- favoured.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 117 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
113
7. DRUMMER’S LEDGE
Malech communicates with his minions in other outposts 
using drumming. This practice is not original to him — the 
Orcs have been using drumming and tapping to communicate 
long distances underground for thousands of years — but he 
has made an art of it. His drummers can convey surprisingly 
detailed messages through their beating, and transmit orders 
through Moria with great speed.
There is always at least one Orc- drummer here, in case 
Malech needs to send an urgent message.
8. IMRI’S FORGE
The treacherous Dwarf Imri serves in the smithy here. Imri 
is but a blacksmith, without the skill and knowledge of his 
ancestors, and has not yet mastered the methods of refining 
Mithril ore into the precious metal. Still, alone of the Dwarves 
in the world, he has the opportunity to study the works of 
the Master- smiths of Old Moria, and he tells himself that this 
makes his dishonour worth the price.
Imri the Traitor
Imri was a Dwarven blacksmith from the Blue Mountains; 
when travelling south, he and his companions decided to 
take a longer road and look from afar upon fabled Mirror -
mere and the Gates of Moria. Orcs waylaid them in the 
Dimrill Dale, and surrounded them.
To his shame, Imri threw down his axe and begged for 
mercy from the Orcs. He promised Yagul that he would 
lure other travellers to Moria, if only Yagul spared him.
Since then, Imri has been a traitor to the Free Folk, 
serving the Orcs. He labours in the forges of Malech’s for -
tress, making weapons and tools for the Orcs. At times, too, 
he has done as he swore and helped lure Dwarves into the 
clutches of the Snatcher. Imri believes — or tells himself, at 
any rate — that he will one day rebel against Malech and 
help drive the Orcs from the halls of the Khazad- dûm, that 
it is better to have a spy on the inside learning the ways 
and methods of the enemies. This is mostly self- delusion, 
a way for Imri to justify his cowardice, but a Player- hero 
who restores Imri’s courage (with ENHEARTEN ) could make 
the wretched Dwarf into an ally.
Imri suspects that Malech’s hold on power is slipping, 
so he seeks to curry favour with Uftak by gifting the brute 
with new weapons and armour. If Uftak takes over after 
Malech’s fall, then Imri can be his vizier, whispering to him 
from the shadows. It is an unlikely route for a Dwarf to 
once again rule in Moria, but it is all the hope Imri has left.
OCCUPATION:  Blacksmith- slave
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Faltering, Secretive
9. FEAST-HALL
Malech’s hall is cold and silent; while his Orc Soldiers may 
gather here, there is no raucous feasting, no cheer or cele -
bration of victory. Malech’s paranoia seeps down into the 
behaviour of his minions, so his Orcs are more concerned 
with plotting against each other and currying favour than 
anything else. The hall has a funereal aspect to it, grim and 
brooding. Everyone knows that their master Malech doesn’t 
have the strength for the war that’s coming and is therefore 
doomed, one way or another. All that remains to be decided, 
in gruff conversations and whispered conspiracies, is who will 
take over from him.
10. YAGUL’S WELL
A well- shaft that descends many levels through the Deeps; 
Yagul and his servants use it as a quick route down to the 
depths when the Wailing Stairs are blocked (see page 159). 
They lower themselves down using a wooden platform instead 
of a bucket. The well- shaft is only just wide enough to hold 
four travellers.
11. UPPER STAIR
This stair leads to the upper portion of the palace where 
Malech dwells. These stairs are guarded by Orcs loyal to 
Malech (or Orcs sufficiently terrified by the threat of Uftak 
to profess loyalty) and the password to permit access changes 
daily. Typically, Malech only permits one of his lieutenants 
into his chambers at a time, so he can play them against 
each other.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 118 =====

CHAPTER 5
114
12. THE HIGH LEDGE
A narrow ledge, barely two inches wide in places, runs along 
the wall of the cavern. It might be possible to climb along 
the ledge to reach the Upper Stair, although doing it without 
being spotted by some Orc sentry is another matter.
13. MALECH’S DEN
The current Orc Great-  chieftain and Lord of Moria dwells 
in the topmost level of the palace. Here were many- pillared 
chambers where Dwarf- lords once looked out through great 
windows over the bright- lit caves; here were libraries for 
philosopher- kings, halls for courts and feasts and solemn 
debates, the work of many hands and many generations of 
Dwarven artisans. Now, these chambers are dark and empty, 
and silent except for the rustling of papers. The half- mad king 
Malech skulks here in the shadows, collating the reports of 
his spies and the ledgers from the mines.
Malech keeps his treasure- hoard hidden in these cham -
bers, stored in huge coffers he had Uftak drag all the way from 
the Vault of Uruktharbun (see page 106). His treasure is a 
Marvellous Hoard, including many objects made of Mithril.
Malech One-eye
The lurid scar that slices across the Orc’s face was left by 
a Dwarven axe at the Battle of Azanulbizar. Malech sur -
vived that dreadful wound, and he filled the empty eye-  
socket with molten gold looted from the treasures of Moria. 
When the call to war came again and the Orcs marched 
on the Lonely Mountain, Malech was among the honour 
guard of the War- chief Bolg son of Azog; he marched with 
a foul heart full of malice, eager to avenge himself on the 
Dwarves and to lay claim to the Dragon’s treasure.
Instead, he found himself fleeing the battlefield in haste, 
pursued by vengeful Eagles and a gigantic bear. Alone of 
his company, Malech made it back to Moria after many 
perils. As the only survivor of Bolg’s guard, Malech was 
acclaimed chieftain of the Moria- orcs. Years later, he swore 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 119 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
115
allegiance to Gorgol son of Bolg, who in the meantime had 
claimed the throne of Bolg in Mount Gundabad, after a swift 
and bloody civil war fought under the mountains.
So, Malech is an old Orc, with a reputation for being 
invincible. Dwarves could not slay him! Eagles could not 
slay him! Beorn could not slay him! The other Moria- orcs 
fear him, but are cheered to have such a legendary war -
rior as their leader. Malech, though, lost his courage com -
pletely after the Battle of Five Armies. He is now utterly 
paranoid, convinced that there are Elvish assassins or wer -
ebears lurking behind every pillar. His bluster keeps the 
Orcs in line, and he can cope with a few beggars at his 
door, but he knows he lacks the courage to deal with any 
genuine threat — but he knows, too, that if he shows weak -
ness, Gorgol or some other Orc- chieftain will replace him.
Now, as the Great War draws closer and the Eye turns 
its lidless gaze on Moria, Malech desperately seeks a way 
to strengthen his position. He will consider anything — an 
alliance with the Orcs of Udûn, luring Gorgol into a trap, 
seeking out a ring of power, convincing a band of deni -
able outsiders to defeat the Mordor- orcs… anything to 
hold onto his position for another day.
He knows that the only thing that waits for him in the 
dark is a knife.
MALECH ONE-EYE
Cunning, Fearful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
7
ENDURANCE
40
MIGHT
2
HATE
7
PARRY
+4
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Broad- headed Spear 3 (5/16, 
Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Craven.  When affected by the Intimidate 
Foe combat task, Malech also loses 1 Hate.
Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are Favoured  
while in darkness.
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts damage 
to Malech that would cause him to go to zero Endur -
ance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if Malech is 
still alive, his Endurance score is set back at half its max -
imum rating.
Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Yell of Triumph.  Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
Schemes and Troubles
RELIGHT THE LAMPS!
The broken lamp that hangs above the Cave of Lights could 
be repaired by the right hand. Even if the lamp only burned 
again for a brief time, it would temporarily blind and dismay 
the Orcs of the fortress as if they had been caught out in the 
sunlight on a bright day.
PONDER CRAZED RAVINGS 
AND PARANOID MUTTERINGS
In addition to Malech’s treasure, his coffers contain a wealth 
of information about the current state of Moria. Deciphering 
the Orc- scratching takes time (a Fellowship Phase undertak-
ing), but reveals all of the named landmarks in Old Moria, the 
Dwarrow delf, the Deeps, the Mines and the Mountain Galler-
ies, as well as the threat of the Orcs of Udûn and Mordor- orcs 
factions. Malech’s notes give a permanent +1 to all Feat die 
rolls made on journeys in Moria.
THE COMING OF GORGOL
Two liveries Sam noticed, one marked by the Red Eye, the other by 
a Moon disfigured with a ghastly face of death…
Should the Company kill Malech, then word reaches Mount 
Gundabad of the One-  eye’s failure. Gorgol, son of Bolg 
responds by coming to Moria himself, travelling through 
secret paths to Goblin Town, then marching under cover of 
night down through Eregion to the West- gate, which his allies 
will open from inside. Gorgol is a far more potent and dan -
gerous foe than Malech — but clever Player- heroes can turn 
Gorgol’s arrival to their advantage, by sowing discord between 
the various Orc- factions. Gorgol is unaware of the presence 
of the Orcs of Mordor, and has no patience for the super -
stitions and mystic whispering of the Orcs of Udûn. There 
shall be kin- strife and slaughter in the dark halls, should the 
Player- heroes turn the Orcs on each other.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 120 =====

CHAPTER 5
116
The Mountains 
of Moria
Yonder stands Barazinbar, the Redhorn, cruel Caradhras;  
and beyond him are Silvertine and Cloudyhead: Celebdil the White, 
and Fanuidhol the Grey, that we call Zirakzigil and Bundushathûr.
 
he Dwarves climbed as well as delved. They climbed 
into the peaks above Durin’s halls, raising towers 
and castles in the heights, building on the slopes 
of the Silvertine and the shoulder of Cloudyhead 
overlooking Dimrill Dale; on Redhorn they did not build. The 
high halls saw the most use in summer, and in winter the 
Dwarves would retreat down into the warmth of the city below.
The Dwarves were forced to abandon these mountain 
fortresses when the city was besieged, and while they did later 
return in smaller numbers, wind and weather has gnawed 
the stones. By the later years of the Third Age, little remains 
of the upper city, save piles of fallen stones buried beneath 
snow- drifts. There are only a few surviving towers, and even 
fewer of these still hide a route to the city below — the 
Dwarves blocked these passageways centuries ago.
On the lower slopes of the mountains graze many goats 
— the wild descendants of animals once tamed and herded. 
These goats are of unusual size and are infamously aggres -
sive and irritable. Wolves and even Wargs prey upon them, 
although the goats can escape by climbing — they are 
astoundingly agile, able to balance on the smallest ledge or 
rocky outcrop. Hares, foxes and squirrels (red squirrels, not 
the black- furred squirrels of Mirkwood) live in the forested 
foothills. Higher up, huge owls nest in the cliffs.
THE FOLK OF THE ANDUIN
The vale of the Anduin river was once home to a race 
of Northmen. In time, some moved south to the plains 
of Calenardhon where they became the Rohirrim. Oth -
ers wandered from region to region until they settled 
under the eaves of Mirkwood and in the dales along the 
Misty Mountains to the east and became the Woodmen 
of Wilderland. Some never settled at all, giving birth to 
the River- folk and the Leofrings.
The éafolc  (“River- folk”) are of Northman stock, but 
share blood with wandering wild men akin to the Dun -
lendings. They live on house- barges that wallow along 
the Anduin — barges big enough for a whole family, and 
build temporary houses on tree-  trunks sunk into the mud 
of the riverbank. They are fishermen, hunters and gath -
erers, but especially traders. They have a reputation as 
being untrustworthy, known to pawn off useless ‘magic 
charms’ and knick- knacks if they can. However, most of 
their trade goods are of good quality. They bring furs, 
amber and timber from the north of the Great River, and 
carry wine, meat and iron tools from the south.
The people of Leof descend from followers of Eorl 
who strayed during their journey to Calenardhon. They 
have preserved their ancestors’ superior horsemanship, 
a skill so legendary that the Dwarves once thought they 
were half- horse, half- men. The Leofrings wander across 
all the Vales of Anduin in search of good grazing for their 
herds, staying away from forests, especially Mirkwood, 
as they consider it bad luck to walk beneath the trees. 
They travel in groups of a dozen families or so, led by a 
headman. Originally they were friends with the Wood -
men, but as the power of Dol Guldur grew, some among 
them chose to bow before the Shadow and entered into 
the service of the Necromancer.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 121 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
117
The Orcs of Mordor consider the mountains their terri -
tory. They maintain a watch from several of the ruined tow -
ers, to spot approaching dangers or travellers to waylay. The 
Orcs can endure the bite of the winter wind, but do not like 
it, quarrelling over who has to climb up and watch, and who 
can hide underground in the warmth (more Orcs have been 
killed in knife-  fights over watch rotas than by the axes of a 
whole army of Dwarves!).
Legends say that Mountain- trolls and Giants alike were 
driven from these mountains by the Dwarves in days of old. 
No Giant has been seen in the heights in recent times, but 
it is once again possible to encounter a Troll here, especially 
on the slopes of Caradhras.
The other key inhabitants, on the extreme northern edge 
of the district, are the Mountain- Folk of Tarloch, kin to the 
Woodmen of Mountain Hall. They are a hardy people, grim 
and unwelcoming to outsiders. They descend from their 
mountain fastness to the Vales of Anduin, to trade with the 
River- folk and the nomadic Leofrings (see the box The Folk 
of the Anduin, on page 116).
The folk of Tarloch know Moria only as a stronghold of 
the Orcs.
The Redhorn Gate and 
the Citadel of Barazinbar 
- famous -
On the third morning Caradhras rose before them, a mighty peak, tipped with snow 
like silver, but with sheer naked sides, dull red as if stained with blood.
RUMOUR
“Moria? Aye, I’ve heard of the place. It lies in the hills above the 
Dimrill Dale, off the Redhorn Pass. Crows nest in the ruins.”
OLD LORE
“The Redhorn Gate was the old name for the pass through the moun-
tains south of Mount Redhorn (in the Elvish Caradhras). Ever it 
was a treacherous route over the mountains, but swift if fortune was 
with the traveller. On the west side, it climbed up from the hills of old 
Eregion and crossed the slopes of Caradhras before dropping down 
the Dimrill Stair on the east. There, one may see the remains of the 
Citadel of Barazinbar that was once the Keeper of the Redhorn Gate. 
There are ruins all over the Dimrill Dale, but it has been a thousand 
years since the Dwarves dwelt there, so little remains. The old Citadel 
is the exception — it was built so well that parts of it yet endure.”
Background
High and impassable are the Misty Mountains; legend holds 
they were raised as a wall of stone against enemies in days 
of old. There are few places where the mountains may be 
crossed. The ones that saw the most use throughout the cen-
turies are the High Pass north of Moria, the Gap of Rohan 
far to the south, and the Redhorn Gate.
The Citadel of Barazinbar was once a mighty fortress of 
the Dwarves, commanding the Redhorn Gate and the pass 
over the mountains. The towers rose to the sky, and it was 
said that on a clear day, their topmost battlements could be 
seen from Hollin (it is plain to see that this is absolute non -
sense, but there are Dwarves who insist it is true and grow 
greatly offended if you argue with them). Though the for -
tress is named for the Redhorn mountain, it is not built on 
Caradhras; its foundations rest on the Silvertine.
Now, the Citadel is ruined, the walls rent and the towers 
toppled. The remains are visible from the Dale below, and 
some travellers have mistaken its great wreck for Khazad-  
dûm, not realising that far larger ruins lie beneath their feet. 
Treasure- seekers still come here, combing the ruins for fabled 
hoards of gold and silver; they find only Orcs.
Locations
1. TOP OF THE DIMRILL STAIR
The long and arduous climb up from the Dale below ends 
here — with a slightly less arduous but much longer strug -
gle across the lower slopes of the mountain. The top of the 
Stair was always prone to landslides and avalanches. When 
the Dwarves maintained the pass, they cleared the screes and 
warned travellers when the snows on the upper slopes seemed 
especially perilous; these days, Orcs are more likely to start 
avalanches to bury travellers.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 122 =====

CHAPTER 5
118
2. AGDA’S CLIMB
Agda’s Climb is a sheer cliff 
above the Dimrill Stair. At the top 
of the cliff is a cave mouth, and from 
this cave mouth issues a fast- flowing 
mountain spring. The waters cascade down 
Agda’s Climb in a furious torrent to join the other 
falls in spring and summer, and in winter they freeze, 
turning the cliff face into a glittering wall of ice.
For a few days in autumn, it is possible — but very dif -
ficult — to ascend the cliff, when the flow of the falls is 
diminished but not yet gone. The Dwarves believed that 
drinking from the source of the falls brought inspiration 
in the coming year; those who drank from the bitterly cold 
water were blessed with visions of great works of craft. If 
this tradition is true, then drinking from the stream gives 
Inspiration on all CRAFT  rolls related to a single work until 
the next Adventuring Phase.
The pool at the base of the falls once held offerings to 
the dead, in remembrance of those who tried the climb but 
failed and fell to their deaths. The Dwarves prefer to lay their 
dead in tombs of stone, but leave tokens of memory if the 
body cannot be recovered. Travellers who delve in the freez-
ing waters may find a Lesser Hoard here.
3. RUINS OF THE CITADEL
The remains of the Citadel stand here — a great mass of tum-
bled and buried stone, with a few walls and towers emerging 
from the snow like the fingers of a dead man. The ruins do 
THE REDHORN GATE AND 
THE CITADEL OF BARAZINBAR
1
4
7
2
5
8
3
6
9
offer shelter from the storms that blow down off Caradhras 
— although if they have gotten as far as Barazinbar, most trav-
ellers would prefer to push on down the Dimrill Stair and 
reach the relatively balmy climes of the Dimrill Dale below. 
Unless, of course, they arrive at the Orc- haunted ruin just as 
twilight falls and they dare not descend the steep Stair in the 
dark, in which case… welcome to Barazinbar, my friends! May 
you live through the night!
A search of the ruins discovers some grisly remains of 
Orcs — not a fresh kill, for they have been picked clean 
by the crows, but relatively recent. These were Moria- orcs, 
driven out of their Warren (5) by the invading Mordor-  
orcs. Cloven skulls and arrows speak of violence, and may 
reveal to clever Player- heroes that there are multiple Orc-  
factions in Moria.
5
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 123 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
119
4. CROW’S NEST
This tall tower is remarkably intact. Once, it was an observa -
tory where Dwarven astrologers watched the stars (perhaps 
warily; Elves love the stars, but Dwarves are said to covet them). 
Now, it is infested by crows, the many children of Mocker 
Crawe (see page 74).
There is a Lesser Hoard of shiny things amid the nests. 
Only Crawe is large enough to actually present a threat in 
combat, but the whirling and pecking of his offspring means 
all combat rolls made here lose (1d) — and the cawing of angry 
crows summons Orcs from the nearby warren.
5. ORC-WARRENS
Tunnels and re- excavated cellars of the old Dwarf- fortress, 
now inhabited by Mordor- orcs. While these wretches happily 
ambush unwary travellers on the pass, they retreat if they meet 
serious resistance, preferring to flee up the mountain towards 
the Mountain Galleries via the Mountain Stair.
6. THE MOUNTAIN STAIR
This is a sheltered cut in the flanks of the Silvertine, a path 
leading south and up the slopes. This is the path up to the 
Mountain Galleries (see page 122). It is a hard climb, espe -
cially if the weather is bad, and it often is. Still, a brave Com-
pany could follow this route up and discover the hiding place 
of the Mordor- orcs…
7. THE REDHORN PASS
The Redhorn Pass is a difficult crossing of the mountains — 
but it can be crossed. The path climbs amid many twists and 
turns, and is often blocked by many fallen stones, or runs 
along deep ravines. It is a Perilous Location, so the travellers 
must brave two mandatory Journey Events when crossing the 
pass. Roll on the Journey Events table below for each event (if 
crossing in autumn or winter, make Ill- favoured rolls).
REDHORN PASS JOURNEY EVENTS
FEAT DIE 
ROLL EVENT CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL 
FATIGUE 
POINTS GAINED
Falling Stones  
and Shifting Snow
If the roll fails, the target suffers a grievous Endurance loss from falling, and 
everyone else in the Company suffers a severe one.
4
1 Eerie Noises  
in the Darkness
If the roll fails, everyone in the Company gains 1 Shadow point (Dread). 3
2–3 Bitter Cold If the roll fails, the target suffers a severe Endurance loss from cold. 3
4–7 Blinding Blizzard If the roll fails add 1 day to the length of the journey, and everyone in the 
Company suffers a moderate Endurance loss from cold.
3
8– 10 A Path Through  
the Snow
If the roll succeeds, reduce the Fatigue gain of everyone in the Company 
except the target by 1, plus 1 for each Success icon  rolled.
3
A Gleam  
of Good Hope
If the roll succeeds, no Fatigue is gained and everyone in the Company regains 
1 Hope.
1
GHOST-DOGS OF THE REDHORN PASS
When Moria was inhabited, the Dwarves patrolled 
the Redhorn Pass. They trained great dogs to track 
down travellers lost or stranded in the snows. 
These dogs were famed for their endurance 
and loyalty; some were said to carry little casks 
of Dwarven spirits on their collars to revive half-  
frozen travellers. They were ferocious, too, and 
battled the Wargs of Wilderland.
The kennels of these dogs can still be seen 
amid the ruins of the citadel. Legend holds that 
the Dwarves set these dogs free when Moria was 
abandoned, but that the dogs still patrol the pass, 
the tradition passed down from dog to pup and 
on through the generations. Other tales claim 
the ghosts of these friendly dogs haunt the fro -
zen slopes. In either case, a Player- hero who rolls 
a  while crossing the pass may be aided by a 
mysterious dog…
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 124 =====

CHAPTER 5
120
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 125 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
121
8. THE SCAR OF CELEBRÍAN
In the year 2509 of the Third Age, Celebrían — daughter of 
Galadriel and Celeborn of Lothlórien, wife of Elrond Half-  
Elven — was waylaid by Orcs out of Moria while crossing 
the Redhorn Pass. While she survived the attack, several of 
her companions were slain, and she was so wounded by the 
assault that she could no longer endure in Middle- earth, and 
took ship from the Grey Havens the following year. The place 
where she was waylaid is still marked; travellers have dreamed 
of the attack when encamped nearby. Her sons, Elladan and 
Elrohir, often come here when hunting Orcs.
9. RED-NAILS’ HOUSE
Dwarven legends speak of a terrible ghost that dwells on the 
Redhorn Pass. The tales describe her as an old woman, her 
face hidden by a veil or cloud. In the stories, she preyed on 
travellers in the Pass, alive or dead: she was said to rip fro -
zen corpses open to eat the frozen blood in their veins. Her 
house is a cave mouth high in the mountains — a tempting 
place to take shelter if caught in a storm…
Schemes and Troubles
TRAVELLERS ON THE PASS
Since the Battle of Five Armies and the death of 
the Great Goblin, most travellers prefer to take 
the High Pass when crossing the mountains. 
Most travellers on the Redhorn Pass, there-
fore, fall into three categories: Dwarven 
pilgrims visiting the Dimrill Dale, Elves 
and Rangers crossing from Loth -
lórien to Hollin, or those who 
wish to avoid other 
travellers…
WAKING RED-NAILS
Snava the Mordor- orc (see page 127) has heard the legends 
of Red- nails. Sauron commanded Snava and his comrades to 
awaken all the old evil powers of the north, in preparation 
for the coming war. (Many of these efforts are described in 
Tales from the Lone- lands). The creature Red- nails — likely, a 
vampire spirit — dwells right on his doorstep. Red- nails has 
not been seen by travellers in many years, and Snava suspects 
she has fallen into slumber. How better to wake a Vampire 
than by luring some fresh meat to her door?
Red-nails
The skin of Red- nails is corpse- pale, and she dresses all in 
white — only her long nails are red as blood.
RED-NAILS
Ancient, Ravenous
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
7
ENDURANCE
60
MIGHT
2
HATE
7
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Nails 3 (7/16, Drain*)
* The attack seizes the target (identically to the Seize 
Special Damage), then drains its blood at the end of 
each round the target remains seized, inflicting a Pierc -
ing Blow and a moderate Endurance loss from poison (a 
severe one if the target is Wounded).
FELL ABILITIES:  Deadly Wound.  Wounded targets make 
an Ill- favoured Feat die roll to determine the severity of 
their Injury.
Deathless.  Spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound. When an 
attack inflicts damage to the creature that would cause it 
to go to zero Endurance, spend 1 Hate to bring the crea -
ture back to full Endurance instead. This ability is inef -
fective against Player- heroes wielding a magic weapon 
enchanted with spells for the Bane of the Undead.
Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are Favoured  
while in darkness.
Fear of Fire.  Red- nails loses 1 Hate at the start of 
each round it is engaged in close combat with an adver -
sary wielding a torch or other burning items.
Hate Sunlight.  The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Heartless.  The creature is not affected by the Intimi -
date Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is obtained.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 126 =====

CHAPTER 5
122
The Mountain Galleries 
- obscure -
Then slowly they saw the forms of the encircling mountains mirrored in a profound blue, and 
the peaks were like plumes of white flame above them; beyond there was a space of sky. There 
like jewels sunk in the deep shone glinting stars, though sunlight was in the sky above.
RUMOUR
“The King of the dwarves lived deep underground, but the Queen 
lived in the mountain heights, above the clouds. That is why you 
never see Dwarf- women; they’re like she- goats, living in the tops of 
the mountains, and they only come down at the start of winter and 
go back up again in spring.”
OLD LORE
“The Mountain Galleries were the uppermost of the upper Levels of 
Khazad- dûm, high on the mountain above the Dimrill Dale. It is 
recorded they were abandoned by the Dwarves long ago.”
Background
The Mountain Galleries were once among the most beautiful 
and airy of the Halls of Khazad- dûm. They were famed for 
their grand walkways and terraces that looked out over the 
Dimrill Dale and the Anduin. When there was friendship 
between the Dwarves and Elves, visitors from Hollin preferred 
to reside here, where they could see the stars and breathe 
the open air. Later, the Galleries were mostly abandoned as 
the Dwarves retreated underground; the halls were stripped 
bare and left as hollow shells.
One Hall was kept intact, by orders of the King — perhaps 
out of a hope that the surviving Elves of Hollin would return 
after the war, and that the art of forging Rings might be taught 
to the Dwarves. This guest- hall for Elves was adorned in a 
manner pleasing to them, with living trees and a grand view 
of the stars. It was from this high seat that Durin IV watched 
the hosts march south in the Last Alliance against Sauron in 
the closing years of the Second Age.
Long stairs and paths ran from the city below all the way 
up to the Galleries; the Dwarves collapsed these stairs when 
the city was taken by Durin’s Bane, and now the Galleries are 
cut off from Moria proper. No Dwarf has visited these Halls 
in more than a thousand years, and they have not been reg -
ularly used since the early days of the Third Age.
The empty, echoing Galleries are now occupied by Orcs 
from Mordor, under the command of the traitorous Dwarf 
Har and his lieutenant Naglur ( page 127). The skeletal gal -
leries are a cold place to encamp, but the Moria- orcs rarely 
climb this high, and there is a chance to hunt fresh meat in 
the forest. For now, Har is content to bide his time and wait 
for an opportunity to take control of Khazad- dûm.
Har, Would-be Lord of Moria
Some say that in some parts of the world wicked Dwarves 
had made alliances with Goblins. In the case of Har, there 
seems to be some truth to the rumours, for Har is a Dwarf, 
and he counts many Goblins among his acquaintances.
Har’s kin dwell far in the east, in lands long under the 
Shadow. He does not see himself as a servant of  Sauron 
— nay, they are allies, collaborators. They are both crafts -
men, after all, and the great work before them is the 
ordering of Middle-  earth. To Har has been entrusted a 
great part of that task: he leads the Mordor- orcs that 
have been sent to reclaim Moria. Their task is to rally 
the Orcs of the Misty Mountains to Sauron’s cause, and 
to send them to war when the time comes. Naglur will 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 127 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
123
march away at the head of a great Orc- host, and Har will 
be left to rule Moria.
Now Har has little love for Orcs. He holds that they are 
no more than tools, living weapons made for a task, and he 
looks forward to a time after the war when they are no lon -
ger needed. The Age to come will be a time for Men and 
Dwarves to prosper. The Haradrim and Easterlings have 
grown strong under the rule of Sauron; the Men of Minas 
Tirith resist only because of Elvish lies and corruption, and 
when they are defeated and all the lands bow to the Dark 
Tower, then there will come a time of rebuilding and craft 
beyond compare. Moria? Moria will be rebuilt and reoc -
cupied by Dwarves, not Orcs — and Har will be their Lord.
Har is not of the line of Durin, or even of the House 
of the Longbeards, but what of it? Sauron has promised 
him a Ring of Power should he succeed in his task, the 
very Ring taken from Thráin in the dungeons of Dol Gul -
dur, and who will question Har’s right to rule with such a 
token in his hand?
Har is deluded, but he is no fool. He knows that his 
Orcs are too few in number to seize Moria by force — and 
that even if he did slay Malech One- eye, then he would 
face the greater threat of Gorgol son of Bolg. He intends 
to treat the matter of Moria with caution — tapping away 
at Malech’s support, slowly expanding his reach, and using 
whatever tools and allies he can find.
Above all, Har intends to survive to see the golden 
Age to come.
HAR, WOULD-BE LORD  
OF MORIA
Clever, Corrupt
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
40
MIGHT
2
HATE
6
PARRY
+2
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Battle Axe 3 (6/18, Break Shield)
FELL ABILITIES:  Fearless.  Har’s Might is considered 1 
higher for the purpose of resisting the Intimidate Foe 
combat task.
Hatred (Elves and Dúnedain).  When targeting the 
object of his hatred, all attacks are Favoured .
Lesser Ring of Power.  Spend 1 Hate to cancel a suc -
cess (not a Magical success) on any Skill roll made by a 
nearby Player- hero. The roll becomes a failure instead.
Thick Armour.  Spend 1 Hate to gain (2d)  on a Protec -
tion roll.
Locations
1. THE MOUNTAIN PATH
This is the perilous route that leads up from the Redhorn 
Gate, far below. It is an arduous climb at the best of times, 
and virtually impossible in winter. The Mordor- orcs, bred in 
the Mountains of Shadow and the heights above the Morgul 
Vale, are adept climbers, but even they fear the biting cold. 
Secrecy, too, is their watchword — they only travel at night, 
and try to avoid leaving signs of their presence. They dare 
not light fires or cut steps to make the climb easier. Still, even 
they make mistakes, and a tracker might find Orc- prints in 
fresh- fallen snow.
2. THE DEEP PATH
These are the stairways and tunnels that lead down to the 
Upper Levels of the Dwarrow delf. The dwarves collapsed 
these stairways, choking them with rubble. Har’s Orcs can 
enter the city below via the Dimrill Door (see page 77), but 
that secret way risks being seen by enemies at Dimrill Watch 
(see page 76 ) or the East- gate (see page 81 ). Therefore, 
Har’s Orcs are slowly excavating the tunnels, stone by stone, 
tap by tap. Travellers in the upper halls of Moria might hear 
the distant sound of digging…
3. THE GATEHOUSE
The original entrance to the Mountain Galleries, now crum-
bled into ruin. Har orders his Orcs to stay away from the 
Gatehouse, to preserve the impression that the Galleries are 
abandoned should any Moria- orc pass this way. However, some 
of the more eager Mordor- orcs crept into the Gatehouse and 
defaced a statue of Durin — they carved the image of the Lid-
less Eye across his face, a declaration that Moria shall belong 
to Sauron the Terrible when the war comes.
HAR’S RING
This ring was forged by the Elven- smiths as a gift 
for the Dwarves long ago, but was stolen by Sau -
ron when he conquered Eregion. Now, at last, it 
is in the hand of a Dwarf. It is a heavy ring of iron, 
studded with fiery- red stones of polished amber. 
If the Player- heroes gain possession of it, the ring 
gives the Blessings of AWE  and PERSUADE  — but it 
is cursed with Shadow Taint, raising the wearer’s 
Shadow score by 2.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 128 =====

CHAPTER 5
124
4. THE SIDE DOOR
Har’s Orcs use this path when entering the Galleries. It is 
always guarded by Great Orc Bodyguards  under the com -
mand of Naglur. The Orcs are ordered to hold back any 
ambushes until the intruders are well inside the Galleries, so 
they can guarantee that no- one escapes the trap.
If the Company comes this way — especially if they are 
mostly Men, without any hateful Elves or Dwarves — then 
Har might order his Orcs to let them pass (see page 127).
5. ABANDONED GALLERIES
The Dwarves stripped these galleries of all finery and furnish-
ings long ago, so there is little to be found here save snow 
and the dust of centuries. Har’s forces only occupy a small 
portion of these labyrinthine galleries, so intruders might 
wander here for hours before encountering enemies.
Potential encounters:
 ♦ Caves filled with shrieking bats.
 ♦ Storerooms holding barrels of Orc- food — meat pre -
served with strange powders from Mordor, hardtack 
biscuits, and pressed lumps of black matter, like a foul 
parody of cram.
 ♦ Halls filled with glittering, unmelting ice, from some 
water- tank that burst long ago.
6. THE HIGH CISTERN
There were once dozens of cisterns in the upper parts of 
the city. Springs and meltwater fed these huge many- pillared 
tanks, and pipes and aqueducts brought the water down to the 
city below. The valves and gates that control the flow of water 
are rusted and stuck, but the Dwarves also used cunningly-  
carved blocks of stone attached to pulleys — like plugs in a 
THE MOUNTAIN GALLERIES
1
4
7
10
2
5
8
11
3
6
9
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 129 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
125
Hobbit’s bath, only many times larger. Pull the chain, raise the 
block, and the water flows from the cistern to the pipes below. 
Release the chain, and the frustum- shaped block slips back 
into place, blocking the flow. The chains have rusted away, 
but stone endures. A sufficiently strong Player- hero could lift 
a block and open the channel below — and one such block 
is all that stands between the High Cistern and a route into 
Moria! Beneath the cistern is a pipe that runs down to more 
pipes and aqueducts in the city below. Of course, one snow- 
melt could flood the pipes and wash the Company away like 
spiders down a plughole!
7. THE GREAT GALLERY
The Great Gallery was the one hall left intact when the Dwarves 
withdrew from the heights. A thousand years of neglect and 
Orc- infestation has damaged it considerably, but the magnifi-
cent iron pillars cast and engraved to look like flowering trees 
are still intact, as are some of the sheltered mosaics — and, 
of course, the staggering view out across the Vales of Anduin, 
where the Golden Wood glitters brighter than any gold. Nei-
ther time nor the depredations of the Enemy’s minions can 
diminish the beauty of Middle- earth’s treasures.
That said — the Great Gallery does contain one trea -
sure of note: a carved map of Moria on one wall. The carv -
ing depicts the lost Elven city of Ost- in- Edhil in the west, 
Lórien in the east, and the Dwarven city under the moun -
tain between them. There are images of Elves and Dwarves 
working together, images of hammers and anvils and great 
works of craft — and most importantly of all, an image of the 
Citadel of the Ring- smiths (see page 141).
8. ORCS’ LAIR
The coterie of Orcs of Mordor who have occupied the Gal -
leries dwell here. The darkness in these chambers is so thick 
it is tangible — normal light sources are dimmed almost to 
the point of uselessness. Only those who serve the Eye can 
see clearly here. Their treasure- hoard is a Greater Hoard, and 
includes a copy of the key to the Dimrill Door (see page 77).
9. HAR’S CHAMBER
The Dwarf Har has taken these rooms to dwell in, and has 
repaired them as best he can. Har is a skilled carpenter and 
carver, and has restored much of the grandeur of these rooms 
— a promise, he says, of the renewed Moria to come.
A chest here contains a Lesser Hoard of treasure. Some of 
the treasures were found in Moria, but others were gifts given 
to him in Mordor (and were stolen from the Dwarves long 
ago). There is also a lesser Ring of Power, given in anticipa -
tion of the Dwarf- ring to come. Har’s Goblin servant, Hârelig, 
is often encountered here.
HÂRELIG
A Goblin from Goblin Village (see page 154 ), 
Hârelig was captured by the Mordor- orcs. During 
his interrogation, the canny Goblin spotted the 
curious presence of the Dwarf Har among his cap -
tors, and managed to befriend him by telling tales 
of the unspoiled wonders of the lower city. Hâre -
lig claims that there are portions of Moria that are 
still preserved, still as they were in days of old. As 
long as he can keep Har entertained with such 
fanciful stories, the Goblin buys himself another 
few days of life. Truth is, Hârelig is one of Granny 
Goblin’s preferred grand- children — almost a 
prince of Goblin Village — and the old Matriarch 
has been looking for him since his disappearance 
(see page 155 ).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 130 =====

CHAPTER 5
126
10. THE SECRET CLEFT
Hidden in the Mountain Galleries, in the chambers once used 
as a summer retreat by the kings of Moria, is a hidden cave, 
concealed by a Dwarf- door that can only be seen on Durin’s 
Day. The door leads to a narrow cleft in the stone, a hollow 
in the rock. In this place sit four figures — images of seated 
Dwarves, so perfectly carved that one might believe they were 
once living creatures who sat down and turned to stone. The 
kings of old would come here to contemplate difficult deci -
sions and seek counsel from the distant past.
A Dwarf who spends a night here in contemplation 
becomes Inspired for their next WISDOM  roll, if made by 
the end of the following week. Of perhaps more importance 
to Player- heroes, the cleft is a place of power; evil creatures 
cannot easily enter here if that power is invoked. A Dwarf in 
the cleft may make a WISDOM  roll to refuse entry to enemies.
A second hidden door at the rear of the cleft leads to a 
narrow passageway, and that passageway ends in a doorway 
leading to the Endless Stair (see page 175).
Har discovered the cleft, but when he tried to spend the 
night here, he was beset by nightmares of being buried alive, 
and was forced to flee. The mountain rejected him, and he 
speaks to no- one of his shame.
11. DURIN’S TOWER
Durin’s Tower is virtually inaccessible from the world below. 
It is carved into the top of the mountain spire, the pinnacle 
of Celebdil the White — Zirakzigil in the tongue of Dwarves. 
It is surrounded on all four sides by unscalable sheer cliffs 
and these heights are haunted by Spirits of Shadow. The only 
way to reach the spire, short of an Eagle’s aid, is to find the 
legendary Endless Stair (see page 175).
The tower is doorless; a single window looks out over the 
mountains, and before the window lays a narrow balcony. It is 
a special blessing of Durin’s Tower that it rises above the airs 
where mortal things live, and pierces into celestial firmaments 
where only spirits may dwell, the heavenly region where the 
Sun and Moon walk. From Durin’s Tower, then, an observer 
can see things as they truly are upon the other side; Wraiths 
are visible from the tower’s window, and hidden forces are 
revealed. To look upon the world from Durin’s Tower is not 
for the faint- hearted.
A Dwarf who climbs to Durin’s Tower may ask a single 
question and be assured of an answer.
Spirits of Shadow
Cold Spirits of Shadow haunt the tallest peaks of the Misty 
Mountains, above the mists of the world. They are crea -
tures of the upper air, ancient servants of the Enemy. Per -
haps they were drawn here by the presence of the Balrog, 
or maybe they are so old, so thinned by the passing years 
that they have forgotten all purpose, and can only survive 
here in this middle realm between earth and sky.
The spirits manifest as whirling shapes of snow and ash 
that might — from certain angles — appear like dancing, 
leaping figures. They hunger for the vital force of living 
beings, draining it and leaving an empty husk behind as 
a frozen, desiccated corpse…
SPIRITS OF SHADOW
Fierce, Swift
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
4
ENDURANCE
16
MIGHT
1
HATE
4
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Chilling Touch 3 (4/12, Drain*)
* The attack seizes the target (identically to the Seize 
Special Damage), then drains its life- force at the end of 
each round the target remains seized, inflicting a Pierc -
ing Blow and a moderate Endurance loss from poison (a 
severe one if the target is Wounded).
FELL ABILITIES:  Heartless.  The creature is not affected by 
the Intimidate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success 
is obtained.
Spirit.  Spend 1 Hate to cancel a Wound. When an 
attack inflicts damage to the creature that would cause 
it to go to zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow 
instead. Then, if the creature is still alive, it returns to 
full Endurance. This ability is ineffective against Player-  
heroes wielding any magical weapon.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 131 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
127
Schemes and Troubles
UNLIKELY ALLIES
As the only Dwarf in a fortress of Orcs, Har craves better com-
pany. If the Player- heroes discover the Mountain Galleries, or 
are captured by the Orcs, then Har might masquerade as a 
friendly Dwarven explorer, concealing his true allegiance. He 
might even ally with the Company on some worthwhile mis -
sion, like attacking one of Malech’s lieutenants or rescuing 
the Dwarven Thralls of the mines (see page 170).
While feigning friendship, Har tries to convince the 
Player- heroes that a new age is coming, and that they should 
consider carefully where they stand and who they serve when 
the war begins. (Obviously, if there are Elves among the Com-
pany, then Har is much more circumspect and careful in his 
speech.)
FOUL SORCERY OUT OF DOL GULDUR
By the year 2965, the Necromancer’s fortress of Dol Guldur 
has been reoccupied by the Dark Lord’s servants. If Har needs 
reinforcements, he can call for more Orcs from across the 
River. Such Orcs would need to brave the crossings of the 
Great River, of which there are few. The fords of the Beorn -
ings are well guarded
He can also beg the Ringwraith who rules there for the 
foul smokes and plagues brewed up in the depths of Dol 
Guldur. With casks of pestilent fog, he could flood Moria in 
choking fumes. Such pestilence would not poison Orcs, of 
course — but a demonstration of power like that could con -
vince the Goblins and unaligned Orcs to serve him, and would 
kill any prisoners or adventurers in the depths.
ASSAULT ON TARLOCH’S HALL
To distract Naglur and his Uruks, Har has suggested that he 
plan a raid against Tarloch’s Hall (see page 128). Slaugh-
tering a few dozen humans will at least sate Naglur’s blood -
lust for a while.
SNAVA
Snava is a spy and sorcerer; while Moria is Naglur’s responsi-
bility, Snava’s mission lies further north. Snava is a key villain 
of Tales from the Lone- lands (page 101), and more is told of him 
there. If you wish to include Snava in your Moria campaign, 
then he might bring allies from the northern Orc- bands to 
reinforce the Mordor- orcs, or draw on the sorcery of Dol 
Guldur to call up shadows from the depths.
Naglur, Sword of Sauron
Naglur is a mighty Uruk, almost as big as a Troll. He is Har’s 
lieutenant and enforcer — for now, at least. The other Orcs 
see Naglur as their true leader, and consider Har to be a 
mere figurehead at most. Naglur has little patience for 
Har’s schemes and clever stratagems, and believes that 
slaughtering the chieftains of the Moria- orcs and bullying 
the rest of the maggots into submission would be a far 
more effective strategy. He especially loathes any pros -
pect of dealing with Men, who he sees as inferiors to be 
enslaved or eradicated.
He is a fearsome warrior, bred in the pits of Gorgoroth 
for the coming war. He has fought against the doughty 
soldiers of Gondor, and his blade has tasted blood many 
times. Sunlight holds no terror for him, and neither do the 
dark places under the mountain. Indeed, he is so confident 
in his prowess that he grows restless; if Har will not let him 
slaughter Mountain- maggots, then why not set fire to the 
filthy wood of the Elves, or raid the weakling Men along 
the Anduin? The Eye looks north, and Naglur is determined 
that it will witness his victories!
NAGLUR, SWORD OF SAURON
Arrogant, Fierce
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
7
ENDURANCE
40
MIGHT
2
HATE
7
PARRY
+4
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Broad- bladed Sword 3 (4/16, 
Pierce)
FELL ABILITIES:  Horrible Strength.  If the creature scored 
a Piercing Blow with a close combat attack, spend 1 
Hate to make the target’s Protection roll Ill- favoured.
Thick Armour.  Spend 1 Hate to gain (2d)  on a Protec -
tion roll.
Yell of Triumph.  Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 132 =====

CHAPTER 5
128
Tarloch’s Hall 
- hidden -
They soon came to a wooden gate, high and broad, beyond which they could 
see gardens and a cluster of low wooden buildings, some thatched and made 
of unshaped logs: barns, stables, sheds, and a long low wooden house.
RUMOUR
“Men dwell in the hills north of the Dimrill Dale, in small numbers. 
They are an unfriendly folk, unwelcoming to strangers.”
OLD LORE
“Tarloch, the first chieftain of this hall, once dwelt in Mirkwood. He 
was exiled from the Woodmen for nameless crimes, and took up with 
the Mountain- folk. Later he found a great cave in the hills, and 
made it into his fortress.”
Background
Two hundred years ago, the exiled Tarloch found old mine- 
shafts carved deep into the earth — ancient barrows, he 
thought, the work of Giants. He settled there, making it into 
a safe place to dwell, and other folk joined him in his new 
hall. Tarloch believed he was guided to that place by spirits, 
and he has handed down this belief to his descendants.
In truth, what Tarloch had found was an old Dwar -
ven mine that dug into the northern slope of Cloudyhead, 
searching for Mithril. Over the years since, Tarloch’s descen-
dants have reopened more of the mines, and built a forti -
fied house in the hills. Tarloch’s great- grandson now rules 
Tarloch’s house; more than fifty souls dwell within his walls, 
most of them his kinfolk. They live like Hobbits, using the 
mine- shafts as a great smial with many underground rooms 
lit by rush- lights.
Locations
1. TARLOCH’S HOUSE
Tarloch’s long- house stands over the entrance to the Halls 
Below. It is a long- house of the type that the chieftains of the 
Woodmen of Mirkwood dwell in, a pale shadow of Edoras in 
the land of Rohan. Here, the current leader of this folk — 
also named Tarloch, like his father and his father’s father and 
so on — rules. There is little feasting in this hall; Tarloch’s 
people live hard lives, and are much beset by Wargs and other 
perils so they do not travel far. Despite this, Tarloch is a ring- 
giver — he has considerable treasure, and gives generous 
presents of gold and steel to his trusted kinsfolk.
The entrance is a steep shaft at the back of the hall. A 
wooden stair runs down the shaft, but it can easily be pulled 
down if the hall is attacked, and Tarloch’s folk know other 
ways in and out of the mines.
Tarloch, Chieftain of 
the Cloudyhead-folk
When he was young, Tarloch was a merry, boisterous fel -
low — the spoiled heir to land and fortune, he thought 
himself blessed with a great destiny. He still laughs loudly, 
still drinks and sings and gives generously to his trusted 
followers, but a shadow lies upon him, and he fears what 
the future brings.
As Tarloch came of age, he put on the sword his father 
gave him, and a mail shirt inherited from his grandfather, 
and he entered the barrow as tradition demanded. He 
passed through the Path of Trials and walked amid the 
abandoned Halls of the Gods. He might have snatched a 
few coins or a candlestick from the sacred treasure hoard 
and returned with honour to his folk, but he was the chief -
tain’s son — he felt he had to go further.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 133 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
129
He searched, his torch flickering and fading, and found 
a door that no- one had opened in a thousand years. With 
his father’s sword, he prised it open — and saw, beyond, 
the shadow. Durin’s Bane.
Tarloch interpreted this as a vision of the World’s end -
ing. He stumbled back through the caves and returned 
to his people. He is still haunted by what he saw, and 
believes that one day soon, evil will engulf the lands of 
Middle- earth and destroy all living things. He suspects that 
Tarloch’s house was created by providence as a refuge of 
last resort, that only his people will survive the coming 
catastrophe — if he guides them wisely.
He is suspicious of outsiders, 
fearing they may be harbingers of 
doom. If he comes to trust them, however, 
he becomes almost alarmingly generous and 
welcoming, for he is eager to bring worthy folk 
into his little community. Then, once they are friends, 
he becomes even more dour and fearful, and reveals 
to them his vision of the end to come…
OCCUPATION:  Ruler
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Generous, Wary
2. TARLOCH’S VILLAGE
Tarloch’s people do not live entirely in the halls below — 
Dwarves may build cities underground, and Hobbits burrow 
into hillsides to build their cosy homes, but humans love the 
open sky. Some people prefer to live on the surface, only 
retreating below when danger threatens. The community’s 
forge, tannery and other workshops are also on the surface.
TARLOCH’S HALL
1
2
3
4
5
6
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 134 =====

CHAPTER 5
130
Meru the Huntress
Meru is kin to those of Tarloch’s House, but she does not 
dwell there. She prefers solitude, and lives high up in the 
mountains like a Wild- woman. She has several caves and 
cabins in the heights, and moves between them as the sea -
sons change. Meru hunts the wild goats and snow- rabbits 
that live in the mountains, and comes down to the valleys 
every few months to sell furs. The young folk of Tarloch’s 
House whisper that Meru is a Skin- changer who can take 
the form of a bear, and it is true that her mother was one 
of Beorn’s folk.
Whatever gifts she has, they come with a cost — Meru is 
compelled to help travellers in the mountains, even at the 
risk of her own life. She cannot deny a traveller aid, even 
though she might (and will!) grumble and curse about the 
added burden. Meru may be the best guide to the moun -
tains, but she is not the most pleasant travelling companion.
She knows Orcs have occupied the Mountain Galleries 
high on the slopes of Silvertine, and fears they may pose a 
danger to Tarloch’s Hall. Something, she thinks, will need 
to be done about those foes.
OCCUPATION:  Hunter, Trapper
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Grumpy, Taciturn
3. THE HALLS BELOW
Old Dwarf- mines run under the village, and the villagers have 
turned a portion of these into a refuge. While the mines run 
deep, they are no more than a scratch in the earth compared 
to the Mines of Moria. The Dwarves came here looking for 
Mithril, but found only iron.
Tarloch’s treasury is hidden here, deep in the mines. It is a 
Lesser Hoard — and entirely consists of treasures taken from 
the Barrow (see below). Any Dwarf or Lore master may recog-
nise these as relics of Khazad- dûm. (Over the years, some of 
Tarloch’s folk have guessed the true origin of the treasure, but 
they have kept their silence — out of fear of Tarloch’s wrath, 
or vengeful Dwarves demanding the return of the treasure.)
4. TARLOCH’S BARROW
As well as the mine- shafts, old Tarloch found another work 
of the ancients, even higher up on Cloudyhead’s slopes — 
what he thought to be an ancient barrow. It was actually the 
remains of a Dwarven look- out post. The ‘barrow’ has become 
a sacred place for the folk of Tarloch: their dead are laid to 
rest here, and it is customary for young folk on the cusp of 
adulthood to spend three nights underground. The brave 
youths travel along the passageway into the caves beyond, 
and are said to return with treasure.
Tarloch’s Barrow, then, is a secret entrance into the city, 
one that the Orcs do not know about and do not watch. The 
Mountain- folk have no idea that they are trespassing in fabled 
Vesna, Keeper of the Barrow
Vesna, old and grey, is the keeper of the Barrow in Tarloch’s 
Hall. She lives in the barrow, and she is so haggard that one 
might be forgiven for thinking she is already among the 
dead. She is responsible for overseeing the initiations of 
the young warriors of the House, escorting them down the 
long dark tunnel lined with the wrapped bodies of the hon -
oured dead, and sending them into the Halls of the Gods.
Secretly, Vesna believes that her duty is to weed out 
the unworthy. She thinks the dead whisper to her, encour -
aging her to plant cunning traps and deadly snares in the 
dark places along the Path of Trials. Since Vesna became 
the keeper of the Barrow, she has murdered and maimed 
more than a score of her kinfolk. She believes this is a holy 
act, a necessary offering to the Gods of the Mountains, 
and her keening is heartfelt when she washes and wraps 
the corpses of her victims and inters them in the Barrow.
Vesna also believes that only the folk of Tarloch’s 
Hall are permitted to enter the Barrow and the corridors 
beyond; should she learn of trespassers in ‘her’ domain, she 
would be honour- bound to turn her trap- making on them.
OCCUPATION:  Gravekeeper, Wisewoman
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Secretive, Sepulchral
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 135 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
131
Moria — they believe they have found a doorway to a magical 
realm beyond the confines of the mortal world, and that they 
walk in the Halls of the Gods.
5. THE PATH OF TRIALS
The passageway from the Barrow runs through natural cav -
erns within Caradhras. These caves wind like entrails through 
the mountain; in places, they have broken under the weight 
of the rock above, and travellers must climb or crawl through 
narrow gaps. The malign spirit of Caradhras brings ill- fortune 
to those who brave these dangers, and not all those who 
enter the caves return. Skeletons lie in crevices and dead-  
falls along the route.
6. THE HALLS OF THE GODS
This, to be precise, is the Nineteenth Hall on the Fifth Level, 
not too far from the Chamber of Mazarbul (see page 104). 
The main route to the Nineteenth Hall was cut off from the 
rest of Moria by a cave- in, and the Hall went unlooted by Orcs, 
so its treasures were left to the pilgrims from Tarloch’s Hall 
to find. So far, the intrusions of Men have gone unnoticed by 
the Orcs of Moria, but as they push beyond the Nineteenth 
Hall, that may change…
Schemes and Troubles
THE MORDOR-ORC RAID
Though only Meru is aware of their presence, the closest 
neighbours to Tarloch’s Hall are the Mordor- orcs of the 
Mountain Galleries (see page 122). Har is planning to send 
his violent minion Naglur to raid the hold. Har does not know 
about the secret route into Moria, but if he learned of that, he 
would immediately move his forces to occupy Tarloch’s Hall.
THE LOST DWARF
Meru finds a bedraggled Dwarf roaming the mountains — it 
is Ibin the Ring- seeker (see page 19). While a guest in Tar -
loch’s Hall, he recognizes Tarloch’s cloak- pin and golden arm- 
bands as stolen Dwarf- treasures. He tells the Player- heroes of 
this theft — what do they do with this knowledge?
THE WEDDING
Tarloch seeks to bring worthy outsiders into the fold of his 
household. If a true hero visits his hall, then Tarloch breaks 
out the best mead (bought from the Beornings) and attempts 
to get them drunk, in the hopes of arranging a betrothal to 
one of his followers the next morning.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 136 =====

CHAPTER 5
132
The Road
But going straight, without mishap or losing our way, we shall take  
three or four marches, I expect. It cannot be less than forty miles from 
West-door to East- gate in a direct line, and the road may wind much.
 
he word ‘road’ conjures up images of a wide, 
straight path, a tunnel driven through the heart 
of the mountain, and in places this is not inaccu -
rate. But the Dwarf- road through Moria is not one 
path — it was knitted together from many different sections, 
and then deliberately unpicked.
The Dwarves did not set out to build a road under the 
mountains. They dug for different reasons, and in many dif-
ferent directions, primarily for mining. They found caves 
and natural passages, too, that extended west under Mount 
Celebdil — but these only brought them half- way to the west-
ern edge of the mountains. The Dimrill Stair was, for many 
hundreds of years, the only route west from the Dimrill Dale. 
The Dwarves built a fortress at the mouth of the Redhorn Gate 
to guard the western approach, and established new mines 
and quarries to support this fortress. Over time, these new 
mines extended until they reached the far end of the cave 
network — and then explorers found a path from east to west.
The new road was expanded slowly, for the Dwarves had no 
desire to have outsiders tramping through their halls. Trade 
still went over the Dimrill Stair, and the road was chiefly used 
as the spine of many mine shafts as the Dwarves sought Mithril.
The importance of the road grew in the Second Age, 
as the Dwarves became close allies of the Elves of Eregion 
— and as the strength of the Enemy grew. Even as Sauron 
feigned repentance and sought the friendship of the Jewel- 
smiths of Eregion, Orcs assailed the passes of the Misty 
Mountains, seeking to divide the lands of the Free Peoples. 
A safe road through the Mountains was needed to maintain 
contact between old Moria and the new citadel in the West, 
and so legions of tunnellers and miners dug to expand and 
straighten the path. The Moria- road was a wonder of the 
world, a testament to the stone- craft of the Dwarves. It was 
in that time that the Doors of Durin were forged.
When Eregion fell and the West-  gate was assailed, the 
Dwarves were afraid that the road would be turned against 
them, and imagined a host of Orcs marching down the wide 
boulevard into the heart of Khazad- dûm. In the years after 
the humbling of Sauron, the kings of Khazad- dûm ordered 
that the Road be made safe. Sections of the tunnels were 
deliberately collapsed, so that the only passable route wound 
around and around through a labyrinth of side tunnels; Road-
wardens were appointed to guide travellers, and each warden 
knew only a portion of the route so that no traitor or prisoner 
could bring enemies into Khazad- dûm.
In the end, this led to tragedy. Had the straight Road 
remained as it was in days of old, clearly signposted and easily 
traversed, a great many more Dwarves might have escaped 
the fall of Moria when Durin’s Bane arose. As it was, most 
perished in the eastern parts of the road, and only a handful 
made it to West Moria with tidings of doom.
THE HIGH ROAD AND THE LOW ROAD
By custom, the Road under the mountain was 
referred to as the ‘Low Road’. The correspond -
ing ‘High Road’, though, was not the way over the 
Redhorn Gate as is commonly assumed. The tradi -
tional High Road was the road to the Elven capi -
tal city of Hollin. Thus, a traveller would take the 
High Road from Hollin to West Moria, and then 
the Low Road from West Moria to the Dwarrow-
delf. Of course, after Hollin was destroyed and 
the Elves fled, the old High Road fell into disuse, 
and travellers began referring to the Dimrill Stair 
as the ‘High Road’.
Certain riddles and inscriptions found in Moria 
may refer to the high or low road; if a message 
states that a certain treasure is buried ‘six miles 
from the Doors of Durin, by the verge of the High 
Road’, it is wise to first determine which high road 
the writer intended…
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 137 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
133
The Halls of 
the Roadwardens 
- obscure -
There were not only many roads to choose from, there were also in many places holes and 
pitfalls, and dark wells beside the path in which their passing feet echoed. There were fissures in 
the walls and floor, and every now and then a crack would open right before their feet.
RUMOUR
“There’s a road under the mountain, running all the way from West- 
gate to East, and three ghosts guard it. ”
OLD LORE
“The Dwarven kings appointed three Roadwardens to watch over 
the Road’s maintenance and security, and each warden had a hall. 
Seek out these halls, and you shall know you are on the right path 
through the mines.”
Background
The Low Road is divided into three sections. From east to west, 
these are the Straight Road, the Upper Mines, and the Stairs. 
A Roadwarden’s Hall lies midway along each of these sections.
Locations
1. CITY GATE
The great doors of the city of the Dwarrow delf were made of 
beaten gold, and bore images of Durin on his throne. They 
are gone now; they were blasted by Durin’s Bane, and the 
remnants hacked up and looted by Orcs.
2. THE STRAIGHT ROAD
This is the Road as the Dwarves dreamed it might all one 
day be — wide and arrow- straight. No openings lead to other 
tunnels or galleries, and the floor is level. The remains of 
sconces in the walls tell that this portion of the Road was 
once illuminated by cunning lamps. At regular intervals 
along the path are way- stations where a traveller might rest, 
with water- troughs for beasts and thirsty walkers alike. The 
tunnels are lined with ashlar masonry, snug and dry as a 
Hobbit- hole even after a thousand years of neglect. In places, 
travellers might still find a few remnants of the mine- carts 
and caravans that used this road. It is easy to travel on the 
Straight Road.
3. THE HALL OF THE FIRST ROADWARDEN
The Hall of the First Roadwarden is half-  way along the 
Straight Road; it is one of the best- preserved halls in Moria, 
mostly undespoiled by Orcs. Bas- reliefs on the walls depict 
the building of the Road, the empty seat of honour of the 
warden stands vigil over a hall of empty benches and stone 
tables. It almost feels like the explorers have arrived only a 
few moments after a great host of travellers departed down 
the road, and one can almost imagine the echoes of Dwarven 
marching songs fading in the distance.
4. THE UPPER MINES
The Straight Road once continued west through this region, 
running several levels above the mines, but those tunnels were 
deliberately collapsed to protect the city from the threat of 
invasion. Instead, the Road takes a twisting detour through 
the upper mines. Deep shafts and spiralling ramps connect 
this part of the road with the Mines below (see page 166). 
The correct route was deliberately disguised by the Dwarves, 
and a traveller must double back several times as they wend 
through this labyrinth to find the correct path.
The mines under the Silvertine produced iron and precious 
metals, not Mithril or gems. The Dwarves used the Road to 
carry wagon- loads of ore back east to the foundries and smith-
ies, and there are side chambers where ore stockpiles might 
still be found, though the Orcs looted most of these long ago.
It was Gandalf who raised them all from sleep. He 
had sat and watched all alone for about six hours, 
and had let the others rest. ‘And in the watches 
I have made up my mind,’ he said. ‘I do not like 
the feel of the middle way; and I do not like the 
smell of the left- hand way: there is foul air down 
there, or I am no guide. I shall take the right- hand 
passage. It is time we began to climb up again.’
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 138 =====

CHAPTER 5
134
5. THE HALL OF THE SECOND ROADWARDEN
The Second Hall is perhaps the most impressive of the three 
— it is carved into the inside of a titanic stalactite that hangs 
from the ceiling of a cavern. This hall is cramped, and can 
only accommodate a handful of guests, but they may reside 
there in perfect security, for the stairway to the hall is nar -
row and easy to defend against even a host of foes, while the 
windows of the hall give excellent views over the cave below 
and are wide enough to be used as arrow- slits.
The Second Hall may be used as a guardpost by Malech’s 
forces. Roll the Feat die and add the company’s current Eye 
Awareness. On a 10 or an , Malech has guards here. If they 
are present, there is a mix of Orc Soldiers and Orc Guards 
(a total equal to twice the number of Player- heroes), plus an 
Orc- chieftain.
7. THE STAIRS
After Eregion was destroyed and the armies of Sauron ham -
mered on the Doors of Durin, the Dwarves feared that they 
might be attacked from the west. These stairs, then, were pre-
pared as a second line of defence. The passages twist round, 
climb and descend again, and the Dwarves built all manner 
of traps and fortifications into the tunnels, so that an invading 
Orc- host might be penned up and slaughtered by doughty 
axes. The stairs, then, are easy to navigate, but a traveller 
should avoid leaving the path, as the wrong step might trig -
ger some ancient trap.
and setting themselves up as a minor warlord in opposition 
to Malech; Malech is then obliged to send some of his boys 
all the way down the Road to break skulls and restore order. 
The skulls of the last three Orcs to defy Malech hang from 
the top of the gate- arch.
Schemes and Trouble
NAVIGATING THE ROAD
While the Straight portion of the Road is obviously easy to nav-
igate, the other two stretches are full of twists and branches. 
The first time the Company takes this path, resolve it as a 
Skill Endeavour of Daunting Resistance. Skills like TRAVEL , 
EXPLORE , SCAN  and LORE  all apply here. Set the time limit 
depending on the circumstances; if the Player- heroes exceed 
the time limit, then either increase their Eye Awareness by 1 or 
apply a Revelation Episode without decreasing Eye Awareness.
STAFFS OF THE ROADWARDENS
Each of the three Roadwardens bore a staff as the sign of their 
office. These staffs were made of steel inlaid with Mithril, and 
bore a gemstone (ruby, emerald and diamond, respectively). 
8. THE HALL OF THE THIRD ROADWARDEN
The Third Hall sits at the bottom of the Stairs. An aqueduct 
above the hall has cracked, and now the Hall is flooded with 
icy, stagnant water; the Warden’s seat on its dais rises above 
the flood- water like a lonely island.
The Orcs fear this place, and claim that a monster with 
many tentacles lurks here, watching from the water.
9. THE IMPERISHABLE GATE
This is the mirror of the City Gate, and marks the other end 
of the Road. It was named for the Imperishable Hall that lies 
beyond in West Moria, and bore images praising the Dwarf-  
lords of the western fortress, depicting their wealth and 
their friendship with the High- elves. These images have also 
been defaced, but some of the details can still be made out.
The Imperishable Gate is still functional, despite neglect 
and defilement. Every so often, some ambitious Orc out of 
Goblin Village has the idea of claiming the Imperishable Gate 
THE HALLS OF  
THE ROADWARDENS
4
7
7
2
5
8
6
9
6. THE GREAT WEST CAVE
The Great West Cave is a significant enough 
feature to count as a landmark in its own 
right — see next page.
4
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 139 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
135
The Great West Cave 
- obscure -
RUMOUR
“The heart of the mountain is hollow — there’s an enchanted cave 
there where a hero of old sleeps until they are needed.”
OLD LORE
“The Great West Cave is one of the wonders of Moria, even vaster 
than the Caves of Thrym Thistle beard. It lies a little way off the 
Road, but Dwarven travellers would always take the time to look 
upon its majesty. It is said that the first veins of Mithril were found 
here, long ago.”
Background
Dwarven legend claims that Durin I went exploring the tun -
nels under the mountain when the world was young, and 
he met a monster in a dark cave. Some tales claim it was a 
Dragon, others speak of a fiery spirit, or a horror that crawled 
up out of the foundations of the earth. Durin and the beast 
wrestled, and the fury of their battle was so great that the 
mountain was shattered, and this huge cave was rent in the 
living stone. In the end, Durin defeated his foe and smote 
its ruin upon the stone.
Locations
1. THE HOSTEL OF FÁIN
This complex was once an inn on the Low Road where trav -
ellers and visitors to the Cave could rest. It is ruined now — 
but Orcs have not despoiled it; they fear this area and hurry 
through it.
In the chaotic days after Durin’s Bane appeared, many 
Dwarves took refuge here. Many of them were forced to aban-
don prized possessions as they fled, which may still lie here, 
amid the decayed remnants. There may be treasure here — 
but also documents, records, keys and other personal effects.
2. NAN AND GILIM
Nan and Gilim are two massive elevator platforms. A com -
plex system of chains, cogs and counterweights enabled 
Dwarves to lower one platform down a deep chasm into 
the mines below, using the other as a counterweight as it 
ascended. Five of the eight chains supporting Nan have 
snapped and the platform now dangles over the abyss at a 
steep angle. Nan was on its way back up when the mine- shaft 
was abandoned, and the platform was loaded with Mithril-  
ore. Most of the ore is lost, but there is still a great fortune 
of Mithril atop the creaking platform — if anyone is brave 
enough to climb down and get it.
Gilim’s chains are rusted, but might be repaired. In ages 
past, the Orcs used Gilim for sport, forcing prisoners onto 
the platform and then lowering it half- way into the pit so the 
prisoners could not escape. Only when one slave killed the 
rest would the Orcs raise the platform once more. Gilim’s 
surface is still stained with dried gore, but the Orcs no longer 
play here. They fled when they stirred up the Stone Ghost 
(see next page).
3. PATHS TO THE MINES
Tunnels wind down from the Great West Cave down to the 
Mines (see page 166). The Orcs rarely use these tunnels, as 
they are too far from their regular haunts in the Dwarrow delf.
A hidden compartment inside each staff contained the mas -
ter plans for the Road and the adjoining tunnels, including 
secret observation posts and hidden passageways. Legends 
claim the bearer of such a staff can command any door on 
the Road to open or close with a word; when seated in their 
respective Hall, the bearer could call down powerful blessings 
or curses on the heads of travellers in their domain.
All three Staffs are lost. Maybe they were destroyed in the 
fall of Moria, or stolen by Orcs — or maybe they are still wait-
ing to be found in some dark, underground corner, or they 
lie half- forgotten in some treasuries of the Blue Mountains 
or some other Dwarf- hold.
1
3
2
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 140 =====

CHAPTER 5
136
4. PILLARS OF FÁIN
The Pillars of Fáin are a cluster of magnificent stalagmites 
that stretch from floor to ceiling. The pillars are flecked with 
crystals, so the light of a torch makes them blaze like the ris -
ing sun. Water constantly drips from the ceiling, each droplet 
leaving a speck of limestone that will, over long ages, build 
up into new Pillars.
It was the custom of some Dwarven mystics and hermits 
to come here when the hour of their deaths was upon them, 
so that the slow growth of stone would entomb their bones 
in stalagmites. The Pillars of Fáin are a shrine and graveyard 
as well as a place of beauty.
5. THE HEART OF THE MOUNTAIN
Here, hidden amid the rocks, is a narrow path known only 
to a handful of Dwarves. It leads to a secret cave, and there 
lies a rough- hewn coffin of stone, and on the lid of that cof -
fin these runes appear:
DURIN  
FIRST TO AWAKE  
FATHER OF HIS FOLK  
LORD OF KHAZAD- DÛM
This is the tomb of Durin, first of the Dwarves. It cannot be 
opened by any art or device available to the Player- heroes, 
and neither pick nor chisel will mark the black stone of the 
casket (simply trying to defile or plunder the sepulchre is a 
Misdeed worth 3 points of Shadow). The coffin shall remain 
closed until Durin wakes again from sleep.
This is still a place of power. First, no adversary will trouble 
the Company here, for they are guarded by the forbiddance 
of Durin. Few creatures in Middle- earth have the strength to 
overcome this barrier (although Durin’s Bane could). There-
fore, the Company may rest here safely. Second, the first time 
a Dwarf sleeps in this chamber, they are blessed with a pro -
phetic dream. Usually, this takes the form of a vision of craft, 
inspiring the Dwarf to make or repair some wonderful art; 
for Player- heroes, the vision may be more practical, pointing 
them towards some secret location in Moria (like The Last 
Redoubt of the Dwarves, see page 92 ; The Armouries of 
the Third Deep, see page 151; or The Lost Citadel of the 
Ring- smiths, see page 141).
The Stone Ghost
A spirit haunts the portion of the cave beyond the Pillars 
of Fáin. If anyone trespasses here, they risk the spirit rising 
up to attack them. The Orcs call it the Stone Ghost — the 
spirit is invisible to mortal eyes, but it can hurl rocks and 
boulders as weapons, crushing and grinding its victims 
into a bloody pulp. The Ghost does not pursue enemies 
beyond the confines of the cave.
The Moria- orcs fear it; the Orcs of Udûn worship it, and 
leave offerings near the Pillars of Fáin in the hope of pla -
cating the spirit. The Mordor- orcs do not know the Ghost 
exists, but if they did, they would doubtless try to control it.
It may be that the Stone Ghost is a spell of the Dwarves, 
and will permit those with the right blessing to pass — but 
anyone who trespasses in Moria does so without the per -
mission of the King of the Longbeards, so it may be that 
the Ghost shall watch this place until the world changes 
in the Fourth Age.
STONE GHOST
Cryptic, Mighty
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
9
ENDURANCE
70
MIGHT
2
RESOLVE
9
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
5
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Crush 3 (6/12, Break Shield), 
Hurled Rock 2 (6/12)
FELL ABILITIES:  Heartless.  This creature is not affected by 
the Intimidate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success 
is obtained.
Invisible.  This creature is invisible, and AWARENESS , 
SCAN , and attack rolls against it lose (2d) , while the crea -
ture’s attack rolls are Favoured  and gain (1d)  against 
Player- heroes who cannot see it. A Player- hero who 
obtains a Magical success on an AWARENESS  or SCAN  roll 
can see the creature normally and ignores all penalties 
for the rest of the fight.
Lifeless.  Spend 1 Resolve to cancel a Wound. When 
an attack inflicts damage to the creature that would 
cause it to go to zero Endurance, spend 1 Resolve to 
bring the creature back to full Endurance again.
Snap Blade.  When a close combat weapon scores a 
Piercing Blow against the Stone Ghost, spend 1 Resolve 
to break that weapon. This ability does not affect weap -
ons with one or more Rewards (enchanted or otherwise).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 141 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
137
Schemes and Troubles
THE MITHRIL OF NAN
There are three possible ways to recover the Mithril from Nan. 
One is to climb down the remaining chains and take the ore 
one stone at a time. Each ascent or descent is easy enough 
with ATHLETICS , but failure means a lethal fall — and failing 
with an  breaks one of the remaining chains.
The second approach is to deliberately break the platform, 
so it falls into the Mines far below — and then find where the 
ore landed and recover it. The third option is to repair the 
platform Gilim, bring it down until it is level with its broken 
counterpart, and then carry the ore across from broken Nan 
to the repaired Gilim.
The value in Treasure points of the Mithril that can be 
recovered from Nan is left to the Lore master to evaluate — 
it should be great enough to make a Player- hero consider 
retiring (check the notes about the Campaign Focus on page 
13 for advice on how to handle Mithril in your campaign).
DYING AT THE PILLARS OF FÁIN
Dwarves consider it holy to die at the Pillars of Fáin; if a Dwarf 
Player- hero perishes here, or is interred here in the same 
Adventuring Phase in which they perished, then it counts as 
if they had taken the Raise an Heir Fellowship Undertaking: 
the player names an heir (if they had not previously named 
one), and the heir’s Previous Experience reserve is increased 
by a number of points equal to the Treasure points with which 
the Player- hero is buried (or 5, whichever is higher).
THE GREAT  
WEST CAVE
1
2
3
4
5
3
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 142 =====

CHAPTER 5
138
West Moria
Before him stood a wide dark arch opening into three passages: all led 
in the same general direction, eastwards; but the left- hand passage 
plunged down, while the right- hand climbed up, and the middle 
way seemed to run on, smooth and level but very narrow.
 
he western portion of Moria was a stronghold in its 
own right, a Dwarf- hold the equal of any of the halls 
in the Blue Mountains or Iron Hills. It was in West 
Moria (Dol Mírdan, the Hill of Smiths, in Sindarin) 
that the Dwarves and Elves met in friendship, and together they 
made wonders. For a time, the lord of West Moria was a prince 
among the folk of Durin, second only to the king of the 
Dwarrow delf. The reputation of Dol Mírdan was greatly 
enhanced by the presence of the Master- smith Narvi, who was 
acclaimed the greatest metallurgist and scholar born to the 
Dwarves since Telchar of Nogrod in the First Age. Narvi was 
exceedingly long- lived for a Dwarf, and continued his work long 
after the destruction of Eregion and the death of his friend 
Celebrimbor. It is said that Narvi became ever more eccentric 
and secretive, hiding away in his workshop for months on end, 
and binding his apprentices to secrecy with terrible oaths.
After the fall of Eregion, the importance of West Moria 
dwindled. There was still a little trade through the West- gate, 
but as the years went by, one by one the kingdoms of Eri -
ador fell into ruin. West Moria turned inwards, and jealously 
guarded its own dwindling wealth and influence. The lords of 
Dol Mírdan became strange and troublesome, and there was 
much estrangement between the line of Kings and those lords. 
There were whispers that the lords of Dol Mírdan conspired 
with the descendants of those from Nogrod and Belegost, to 
weaken the hold of Durin’s line on the Dwarrow delf.
The Imperishable Hall 
- obscure -
Now as he came near, it was tinged with a flickering sparkle of many colours  
at the surface, reflected and splintered from the wavering light of his torch.
RUMOUR
“The Dwarves of old were friendly with the Elves of Hollin, until 
they fought over a necklace or somesuch. Who can keep track of 
the ancient feuds of the Elder folk? But there was a Dwarf- hall of 
renown in the western portion of Moria.”
OLD LORE
“Nyi Daughter of Nithi was a Dwarven queen, and she ruled in the 
west of Moria even after the fall of the Dwarrow delf. She was famed 
for her pride, and it is whispered she even defied the commands of 
King Thráin.”
Background
The title “the Imperishable Hall” was given to the Fiftieth Hall 
long ago, when it was decorated with crystal mirrors of Ithil -
din, and the Dwarf- poets held that it resembled a diamond. 
However, the name became a boast — or a curse — in the 
last days of Moria, as the Queen of the Hall chose the security 
of her position over the good of all Dwarves.
In the year 1980 of the Third Age, in the dreadful year 
when Durin’s Bane awoke and the Dwarrow delf fell, the ruler 
of West Moria was Nyi, Daughter of Nithi. The alarm was first 
raised by hammered messages along the Road, and then a 
handful of survivors staggered into the city, bringing word of 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 143 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
139
fire and shadow engulfing the underground complex behind 
them. Nyi ordered the Road to be shut and the Gates sealed, 
to protect her people from the catastrophe that had engulfed 
the Dwarrow delf. Many Dwarves cried out against this, for 
Nyi’s command meant that any others fleeing along the Road 
would be unable to escape, but she held firm — and soon 
afterwards, the Roadwarden reported ‘fire and darkness’ assail-
ing the doors. Durin’s Bane came to the very threshold of 
West Moria — and came no further. The horror withdrew, 
and West Moria was spared.
It was the belief of Nyi and her followers that theirs was 
the last bastion of Khazad- dûm, and it was not until months 
later that they learned from travellers coming over the Dimrill 
Stair that though Durin VI was dead, his son Náin still lived 
and sought to retake the city. Nyi sent troops from West Moria 
over the mountains to aid Náin, but they arrived too late — 
or, some say, she delayed in sending them, dooming Náin. 
Nyi invited Náin’s son, the young king Thráin I, to dwell with 
her in West Moria so he could continue his father’s campaign 
to reclaim the city, but Thráin (perhaps fearing treachery) 
refused and departed for the place that became known as 
the Mansions of Thráin (see page 149).
The population of West Moria grew for a little while, as 
other survivors of the disaster dwelt there for a few years 
before setting off East or West, and Nyi styled herself Queen of 
Moria in Thráin’s absence. By the year 1999, though, Thráin 
had founded a new kingdom at Erebor, and the survivors of 
Moria flocked to the Lonely Mountain. West Moria was now 
but a doorway to a tomb, and Queen Nyi’s reputation was 
marred by her treatment of the kings; her people abandoned 
her, leaving only a handful of Dwarves living in West Moria.
The final date of the outpost’s abandonment is not known, 
but was likely between the years 2000 and 2200. Scouts from 
the Blue Mountains reported finding the Doors of Durin 
closed, but the great Gate leading to the road — the same 
Gate that had been sealed since the fall of Moria — was open. 
Did the last inhabitant of West Moria set off down that dark 
and silent road to Durin’s Bane?
Locations
1. THE IMPERISHABLE HALL
The seat of the Lords of West Moria, the Imperishable Hall 
was famed for its walls, which were adorned with panels of 
cut crystal and gems backed with polished Ithildin. It was said 
that the light of a single lamp could illuminate the whole hall, 
for its light would be reflected and refracted endlessly. The 
Dwarves held that no evil could enter the Imperishable Hall, 
for the place was blessed with the light.
The Hall still stands — it can be found only a short dis -
tance from the Doors of Durin — but the jewelled panels are 
gone. There are no signs of violent removal, so they were not 
wrenched out of the wall by rapacious Orcs. Perhaps an enter-
prising thief could have made off with one or two of the thou-
sand jewels, but to remove all of them would require the efforts 
of a great many skilled craftsmen. If the panels were ever found, 
and set back in the proper configuration calculated by Narvi, 
the Imperishable Hall could be remade once again.
2. GUEST-HALLS
Airy, well- lit chambers made for the comfort of Elves and 
Men. The air shafts here are slanted less steeply than in other 
places, to admit the long light of the setting sun; however, this 
means they are much more overgrown with weeds than other 
shafts, and this hardy greenery spills into the halls. Anyone 
exploring these chambers must hack their way through dead 
gorse- bushes and other plants.
3. THE WEST-MARKET
This grand hall was used by traders and merchants. It was 
renowned for its unique ceiling: a crystal dome lit by a central 
light- shaft; the rays of the sun would be refracted through the 
crystals and bathe the hall below in soft light.
Goblins blocked the shaft and cracked the crystals, and 
now huge chunks of broken crystals sit precariously in the 
heights. The slightest vibration might cause part of the ceil -
ing to fall in.
4. THE GRANARIES OF THE WEST
The Dwarrow delf always relied on food imported from farm-
lands in the Vales of Anduin — but also in the lands of the west, 
from the farmlands around Tharbad and Swanfleet. These huge 
granary- pits once held thousands of tons of grain. Now, they are 
flooded with stagnant water and slime. Cave- fish splash here.
5. THE ARCHIVES OF NYI
In years past, the inhabitants of West Moria had the reputa -
tion of being great scholars. Their friendship with the Elves of 
Eregion led to many Dwarves studying the Elven- tongue. They 
transcribed many tales of the Elder Days, including descriptions 
of wonders and works now drowned under the Western Seas.
The library of West Moria was raided not by Orcs, but 
by Dwarves. Thieves raided the place after the Battle of Five 
Armies, when many of Moria’s Orcs were away fighting in the 
far north. The books and records are now scattered across 
Dwarf- holds and in the hands of traders throughout Eregion. 
Technically, possession of these books is theft — they belong 
to King Dáin, for Nyi perished without heir — so they are 
not sold openly.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 144 =====

CHAPTER 5
140
6. THE CHAMBERS OF NARVI
Brilliant beyond compare was the mind of Narvi. His great -
est accomplishment was in metallurgy — in the making of 
new alloys and new forms of Mithril he had no peer. Celeb -
rimbor and his jewel- smiths forged the Rings of Power, but 
it was Narvi who provided the materials for their work. Narvi 
was accomplished in other crafts, too — in stone- working, in 
the scribing of runes, in the invention of machines. Master 
Narvi was exceedingly long- lived for a Dwarf (“well preserved”, 
one might say); so much so that he outlived his immortal 
friend Celebrimbor. Narvi was too old to fight when Hollin 
was attacked, and he wept bitterly when news came that the 
Elven- realm had fallen.
The loss of Celebrimbor overthrew Narvi’s mind, but not 
his genius. Though he lived for many more years, he never 
left his chambers again, and locked himself away with his work 
until he died at his work- bench. In those days he wrought many 
wonders, driven by an obsessive desire to create. The Lords 
of West Moria preserved the Chambers of Narvi as they were 
when he perished (partly because Narvi sowed traps and con-
cealed many of his works behind riddles and hidden doors).
Orcs have despoiled much of these chambers; even they 
knew the value of Narvi’s work.
7. THE FORGE OF NARVI
The Forge of Narvi remains undisturbed, for it is locked away 
behind an enchanted door. The door is a slab of black stone, 
without mark or keyhole — unless it is touched by one who 
speaks the tongue of the High- elves, in which case the sym -
bol of a holly tree appears, drawn in Ithildin. The door still 
does not open; it requires a password, which is the name of 
Celebrimbor. Beyond lies Narvi’s workshop — and his forge.
The forge grants Blessings to CRAFT  rolls made here. It 
contains many tools and devices of great use, including all 
the equipment needed to refine and process all varieties of 
Mithril.
THE IMPERISHABLE HALL
1
2
3
4
4
5
6
7
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 145 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
141
Schemes and Troubles
THE RINGS OF NYI
The name of the last ruler of West Moria is infamous among 
the Dwarves. It was Nyi who closed the Road, Nyi who failed 
to honour King Náin’s call to arms. Her name is a byword 
for ambition and treachery. Even after a thousand years, the 
sins of Nyi are neither forgotten nor forgiven.
But her kinfolk do not imagine the fire of Nyi’s ambition. 
She had the Ring- smiths of the Citadel (see page 141) make 
her a set of rings with a singular curse — the rings belonged to 
her, no matter who bore them. Thus, if someone puts on a Ring 
of Nyi, her thoughts infect them, whispering in their dreams 
and shaping their waking deeds until they become copies of 
her, their minds overthrown by the desires of a long- dead Dwarf. 
They do not become possessed, per se — more that their thoughts 
and memories get progressively overwritten by those of Nyi.
It may have been Nyi’s plan to scatter these rings in Moria 
as traps for Durin’s Bane — if the monster could not be 
defeated through force of arms, then perhaps it could be 
defeated through magic. Or maybe Nyi, childless and heirless, 
intended to preserve her line through any means necessary, 
even if that meant taking another’s body.
At least three Shadows of Nyi have arisen in the last mil -
lennium. The first was an Orc who arrived at the door of a 
Dwarf- hold in the Blue Mountains, insisting he was “the Queen 
of Dol Mírdan” and demanding entry. The second was a Dwar-
ven explorer who found a ring in the mines, and cast himself 
into a pit rather than become Nyi. The third was a sage in the 
Blue Mountains, who tried wearing the ring carried by the 
Orc; he too lost his mind, but his relatives had the presence 
of mind to imprison and question ‘Nyi’.
A Ring of Nyi is a Cursed Ring that grants Blessings to 
INSIGHT  and RIDDLE ; however, if the wearer suffers a Bout 
of Madness, ‘Nyi’ takes over their body for a time.
Nyi does know certain vital secrets about Moria — 
including the spell to open the doors of the Citadel of the 
Ring- Smiths.
The Lost Citadel  
of the Ring-smiths 
- hidden -
In Eregion long ago many Elven- rings were made, magic rings as you call them, and they were, of 
course, of various kinds: some more potent and some less. The lesser rings were only essays in the 
craft before it was full- grown, and to the Elven- smiths they were but trifles — yet still to my mind 
dangerous for mortals. But the Great Rings, the Rings of Power, they were perilous.
RUMOUR
“There was great friendship between the Elves of Eregion and the 
Dwarves of Moria, and many rings were given in token of friendship. 
Some the Elves made, but others were Dwarf- work.”
OLD LORE
“It is said that the folk of Narvi aided the Elves in the making of 
rings, supplying them with gemstones and metal and other mate -
rials. The Dwarves were rumoured to have pursued the making of 
rings even after the fall of Eregion, and some tales even claim that 
Elves fleeing the Dark Lord took refuge under the Mountain. But 
no evidence for these wild accounts has ever been found.”
Background
The Wise know the history well — the Elves, aided and guided 
by Sauron in disguise — made the Rings of Power, and were 
then betrayed. Sauron forged the Ruling Ring to take con -
trol of the other Rings, but the Elves hid the Three from 
him. Sauron took the remaining Rings of Power, the Seven 
and the Nine, and gave them to the Dwarf- lords and Kings 
of Men to trap them. Eregion was destroyed, and the Rings 
scattered, lesser and Great alike.
The Dwarves of Dol Mírdan had aided in the making of 
the rings, and had been rewarded with many lesser rings as 
gifts. Some of the Elves who escaped the destruction of Hollin 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 146 =====

CHAPTER 5
142
took refuge in Moria for a time, and they brought with them 
more magic rings, and such material and unfinished work 
as they could salvage from the ruins of Ost- in- Edhil. By the 
end of the War of the Elves and Sauron in the year 1701 of 
the Second Age, the Dwarves had gathered more ring- lore 
to themselves than existed anywhere else in Middle- earth.
Narvi cautioned against pursuing the craft of ring- making. 
First, the making of rings demanded much of the maker’s 
spirit, and the spirits of Dwarves are not like those of Elves. 
Second, as long as Sauron held the Ruling Ring, any ring was 
a potential trap for the wearer.
But the Lords of Dol Mírdan did not wholly heed this 
warning, and established a secret forge and laboratory to 
study the art of ring- making. For centuries, Dwarven- smiths 
strove to make new Rings of Power. Their early successes, 
while few in number, came with the aid of the Elves who fled 
Sauron and took refuge in the Mountain — but the fear was 
that any rings they made would fall under the rule of the 
One Ring — a fear that deepened when the first Ringwraiths 
appeared. The Citadel was shuttered then, and the master 
craftsmen turned to the making of ordinary rings.
It was not until the middle years of the Third Age that 
work resumed, as the world outside Moria seemed to decline 
and the kingdoms of Men foundered. Believing that the 
strength of new rings was needed to revive the fortunes of 
Middle- earth, a new generation of Ring- smiths began to work.
The results were uneven; as Narvi warned, ring- making 
took a toll on the smiths, draining them of vitality and even -
tually turning them into cold wights (see page 145). Even 
these sacrifices did not produce new Rings of Power, but the 
Dwarves did manage to produce lesser rings of varying quality. 
They continued their work right up until the end — and even 
after, hoping to forge a ring that could bind Durin’s Bane.
But I rode to the foot of Orthanc; and there he met 
me and led me up to his high chamber. He wore 
a ring on his finger.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 147 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
143
The Citadel of the Ring- smiths was kept secret. Few 
knew the place even existed, and far fewer knew where it 
was located in West Moria. All the doors were hidden with 
runes of concealment, and its architects and builders were 
sworn to utmost secrecy. It might be found by chance, or by 
laboriously piecing together fragments of lore in the records 
of the smiths and masons of the city.
Locations
1. THE OUTER CITADEL
While the Citadel itself is secret, these outer chambers were 
once mansions belonging to individual master Ring- smiths. 
While these rooms have been looted by Orcs and thieves over 
the centuries and little treasure remains, it is clear at a glance 
that Dwarves of great wealth once dwelt here. Examining carv-
ings and crumbling frescos discovers images of Dwarf- lords 
and smiths seated on thrones; a successful SCAN  roll may 
reveal that in every image, the Dwarf- lord wears a ring, and 
there is always a tiny gemstone or fleck of polished metal of 
a different substance to distinguish the ring from the rest of 
the artwork — as if signifying that these rings are of a differ -
ent order to the rest.
The Invisible Goblins of Goblin Village found their rings 
here (see page 157).
2. THE DOOR OF THE RING-SMITHS
The corridor here ends in a blank wall of stone. The skeleton 
of a tall Man lies against the wall; the remnants of his mis -
matched armour suggests he was once a warrior of note. A 
broken sword lies close by. With his last strength, he scratched 
a rough circle into the stone, and what might be a rune ( ). 
That rune stands for ‘s’ or ‘h’ in different traditions.
A close examination can detect the faintest outline of a 
hidden Dwarf- door, but there is no concealed keyhole, and 
no runes appear to hint at the method for opening it.
If a magic ring is tapped against the stone, these words 
appear:
THIS YOU ARE AND TO THIS YOU RETURN
The answer is ‘stone’, although it must be the Khuzdul word 
for stone, spoken in the secret tongue of the Dwarves.
Opening the door counts as a really powerful spell, caus-
ing the one who does so to gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery) 
and increasing the Company’s Eye Awareness by 3 — plus 
the next revelation episode should come from the Ghâsh list.
THE LOST  
CITADEL  
OF THE  
RING-SMITHS
1
2
3
4
5
6
6A
6B
6C
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 148 =====

CHAPTER 5
144
3. HALL OF THE RING-SMITHS
The door opens onto the Hall of the Ring- smiths, a place of 
staggering beauty. This is Khazad- dûm as it was at the height 
of its wealth and power. Unbroken lamps of crystal blaze, 
illuminating a hall of black marble where twisted pillars sup-
port a roof of silver. Seven great thrones are arranged in 
a staggered wedge at one end of the hall, around a small 
plinth wrought of Mithril where rings were once laid. The 
rotten remnants of perished velvet cushions are one of the 
few reminders that this place has been left empty and aban -
doned for a thousand years.
Searching the halls, it is clear that there were Dwarves 
living here until the very end — it contains the remnants of 
food in the pantry, moth- eaten scraps of clothing and the like. 
But there are no skeletons or other remains.
4. THE WORKSHOPS
Here the Ring- smiths sought to recreate the works of the Elves 
of Eregion. Each Ring- smith had their own workshop off a 
central chamber. Each one endeavoured to reach complete 
mastery of one particular skill — as the song says “ There ham-
mer on the anvil smote, There chisel clove and graver wrote. ” So too 
did gem- cutters scrape and polish, and artisans twisted gold 
and Mithril into fine filigree.
Now, all the workshops are empty and dark, their crystal 
lamps snuffed out — all save one. The Ring- smiths went on 
working even as Moria fell around them, seeking to make a 
ring that could defeat Durin’s Bane. They sealed the door so 
they would not be disturbed, and worked even as they ran out 
of food. One by one they perished, giving their lives to the 
craft, and their fellow smiths laid them to rest in the vaults 
below, until only one was left. The Master- smith Fraegr con-
tinued her work until her very last breath.
Her corpse slumps over her workbench, and in her skel -
etal hand she clutches a magic ring. The last ring is not yet 
finished — there are three rubies that were clearly intended 
to be inset into the ring, but Fraegr died before she could 
place them in their sockets. If a smith wishes to finish the Last 
Ring, see Forging the Last Ring, on page 146.
5. THE LIBRARY OF THE RING-SMITHS
Here is preserved more ring- lore and secrets of the Elven-  
smiths of Eregion than anywhere else in Middle- earth. The 
majority of the books here are written in the Elven- tongue, for 
the high speech is more suited for such work than any tongue 
of Dwarf or Man. For security, the books are all chained to 
their shelves; even a master of the citadel had to request that 
a book be unlocked.
Unlike certain other records, some of these books were 
written on perishable parchment, and time has gnawed them. 
Still, many secrets of the elder days are preserved here. The 
grandest tome is the compiled Annals of the Gwaith- i-Mirdáin, 
the Annals of the Jewel- smiths, which contains first- hand 
accounts of the making of the Rings, transcriptions of con -
versations and tales told by Celebrimbor and the Lord of 
gifts, and detailed descriptions of both the lesser rings and 
the great Rings of Power (save, of course, the One Ring).
6. THE VAULTS OF THE RING-SMITHS
The Vaults contain the treasures of the Ring- smiths — and 
their secret shame.
6A: As Narvi warned, put too much of yourself into the ring, 
and you risk becoming a thrall. Many of the Ring- smiths 
became Ring- wights, and were imprisoned in these secret 
vaults after death. Most of the Ring- wights were laid to rest 
in sealed caskets, marked with runes of command to keep 
them from wandering. However, the corpses of the last Ring- 
smiths were also placed here by Fraegr, and she simply laid 
them on the ground. If a living creature enters this chamber, 
these Ring- wights awaken, and the clamour of combat may 
cause the other Wights to claw their way out of their caskets.
6B:  This storeroom contains raw materials for the making of 
rings — ingots of precious metal, cut and uncut gemstones, 
rare oils, powders and acids for etching and so forth. There 
are at least 3 Success Dice worth of Treasure here per Player- 
hero. Alas, the Mithril that was stored here is all exhausted.
6C:  This treasure- vault contains a Greater Hoard; any won -
drous items found here are, of course, rings.
WHERE DO WE GET A MAGIC RING?
The Door of the Ring- smiths presents a chal -
lenge for the Company; how do they get into the 
treasure-  trove of magic rings if opening it requires 
a magic ring? There are several rings to be found 
elsewhere in Moria, such as the Ring of Keys (see 
page 95 ), the Goblin- rings of Invisibility (see 
page 157 ), the Ring of Nyi (see page 141 ), and 
Har’s Ring (see page 123 ).
Player- heroes might also find a ring while 
adventuring, or be gifted a ring by a Patron (likely, 
Saruman the White).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 149 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
145
Schemes and Troubles
THE DISCOVERY OF THE CITADEL
Between the Undead Ring- wights in the Vaults, and the sud-
den jump in Eye Awareness as soon as the Door is opened, 
the Player- heroes will come under assault as soon as they find 
the Citadel — and the books in the library are remarkably 
dry and flammable. Even if the Company defeats the initial 
assault, other foes will soon arrive, like flies drawn to honey.
The Citadel is intended to be a place of wonder and hor-
ror that the heroes visit once, not a place to reclaim and 
rebuild. If they stay here, hit them with Durin’s Bane.
Ring-wight
Dwarves wearing Rings of Power do not thin or fade — 
instead, they are consumed from within, becoming hollow 
husks who hunger for the life force of the living.
RING-WIGHT
Doleful, Dreadful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
6
ENDURANCE
24
MIGHT
1
HATE
6
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Ancient Hammer 3 (6/16, Break 
Shield)
FELL ABILITIES:  Deathless.  Spend 1 Hate to cancel a 
Wound. When an attack inflicts damage to the creature 
that would cause it to go to zero Endurance, spend 1 
Hate to bring the creature back to full Endurance again. 
This ability is ineffective against Player- heroes wielding 
a magical weapon enchanted with spells for the Bane of 
the Undead.
Dreadful Spells.  Spend 1 Hate to make one Player-  
hero gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery). Targets who 
fail their Shadow test or who are Miserable fall victim 
to Moria- madness (see page 43 ) and may only be 
restored to reality with an ENHEARTEN  roll. Otherwise, 
they wander blinded by glory for one hour.
Hate Sunlight.  The creature loses 1 Hate at the start 
of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Heartless.  The creature is not affected by the Intim -
idate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is 
obtained.
Thing of Terror.  At the start of the first round of the 
battle all Player- heroes in sight of one or more creatures 
with this ability gain 3 Shadow points (Dread). Those 
who fail their Shadow test are daunted and cannot 
spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 150 =====

CHAPTER 5
146
RING-LORE OF THE MASTER-SMITHS
The books in the library gathered here contain secrets on the 
making of rings that have been preserved nowhere else in 
Middle- earth. They are priceless, but there are few left who 
could understand what is written within them, and fewer who 
could make use of that knowledge. Should the Player- heroes 
secure any of the books here, where do they take them? Saru-
man, certainly, covets the Rings and has the skill to employ this 
lore. There are Elven- smiths in Elrond’s household who might 
be able to forge new rings, but anything they make would risk 
falling under the sway of the Ruling Ring, so it would be folly. 
The Dwarves of Erebor are unlikely to have the power to make 
new rings (although a ring made with gold and jewels taken 
from the drowned corpse of the last of the Great Wyrms might 
have a certain potency). There are no Men in Middle- earth with 
the power to forge a ring, though there might be ambitious 
lords in Gondor or Umbar who would purchase the books.
Sauron, of course, knows more about ring- making than 
any other entity in all of Middle- earth. He needs not the books 
of the Dwarves; he is already the Lord of the Rings.
FORGING THE LAST RING
The Last Ring was intended to be a weapon against the Bal -
rog; it imbues the wearer with protection against fire and 
darkness. In game terms, it makes the wearer immune to 
the Denizen of the Dark Fell Ability and to any Endurance loss 
from fire, and imbues whatever weapon the wearer wields 
with the Bane of the Enemy.
Completing the Last Ring requires a Daunting Skill 
Endeavour (Resistance 9) using CRAFT . There is no time 
limit, but the smith must put a measure of their spirit into the 
ring as they make it; each Skill roll made on this Endeavour 
causes the smith to gain 1 Shadow Scar. Remaking the Ring 
also requires a small amount of True Mithril.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 151 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
147
The Doors of Durin 
- famous -
“They say only: The Doors of Durin, Lord of Moria. Speak, friend, and enter. And underneath 
small and faint is written: I, Narvi, made them. Celebrimbor of Hollin drew these signs.”
RUMOUR
“The west door of Moria lies near the source of the Sirannon — if 
it still exists. Most likely it was buried under stone long ago, when 
the Dwarves turned their faces from Eriador.”
OLD LORE
“It is said that the west- door of Moria is hidden, and can only be 
found by the Wise — but it still exists. It may be opened with a 
thrust from the far side.”
Background
The fabled Doors of Durin mark the western end of Moria. 
Two ancient holly- trees, gifts of the Elves of Eregion, flank 
the doors. The doors are invisible when closed, but they are 
inlaid with Ithildin that reflects starlight when woken by the 
touch of an Elf or Elf- friend. When made visible, the doors 
are seen to bear four symbols — two trees bearing crescent 
moons, the Star of the House of Fëanor, the anvil and ham -
mer of the Dwarves, and the crown of Durin.
The doors are unbreakable by virtually any force left in 
Middle- earth; Sauron’s armies could not break them in the 
War of the Elves, and he doubtless had Mountain- trolls and 
worse things in his host. When closed, the only way to open 
them from the outside is to speak the password. The doorwar-
dens could also bar the door from the inside, of course — Sau-
ron’s army was not stymied for years because of a simple riddle!
From the inside, the doors can be opened with a simple 
thrust. They are heavy enough that few can manage the effort 
alone, and in days past doorwardens were stationed here to 
aid travellers wishing to pass west. Now that Moria is aban -
doned, a lone traveller risks being stuck behind the doors if 
they lack the strength to open them.
Locations
1. THE WALLS OF MORIA
The sheer mountainside here is known as the Walls of Moria; 
no enemy ever broke through those walls.
2. THE DOORS OF DURIN
The Doors of Durin, also called the West-  gate of Moria, lie 
here. A successful SCAN  test is needed to identify the spot 
in the cliff face where the doors lie; even then, the Ithildin 
inscription “sleeps until it is touched by one who speaks words now 
long forgotten in Middle- earth, ” requires a successful CRAFT  or 
LORE  roll to read.
3. THE GATE-STREAM
Sirannon, the Gate- stream as it was called, is fast and noisy. 
It runs down from the heights and then flows along a trench 
that runs parallel to the main road until it plunges down 
again over the Stair Falls.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 152 =====

CHAPTER 5
148
4. VALLEY OF WELCOMES
In the year 2965, this valley is still dry, the Sirannon 
undammed, and holly trees grow here in profusion. Long 
ago, two parallel rows of holly trees ran alongside the road 
straight to the west- door; now, they have seeded a whole for-
est in the sheltered vale between the arms of the mountains.
Use this example to remind Player- heroes that Moria 
changes. The sight of the two holly trees flanking the door 
by the stagnant pool is one of the most famous images from 
The Lord of the Rings  — describing the west- door as hidden 
among thickets of greenery is a great way to emphasise that 
the game takes place decades before the events of the War 
of the Ring.
5. THE STAIR FALLS
Here, the main road descends in several long loops to the 
lowlands below; hasty travellers can take the steep steps cut 
into the rock alongside the river.
THE DOORS OF DURIN
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 153 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
149
6. THE CAMP OF THE STAIR FALLS
It was long the custom of the Dwarves to visit the holy ground 
of Moria. Now, up until the recent wars, Moria was much too 
dangerous for any Dwarf to approach, for the hills were full 
of Orcs and Goblins. The Dwarves, therefore, took to visit -
ing the westernmost tip of Moria, far enough away from the 
doors that they could retreat in safety if assailed. Dwarven 
pilgrims can sometimes be found at the Camp of the Stair 
Falls, a fortified campsite by the banks of the Sirannon. From 
this staging post, they can complete the pilgrimage to the 
land of their ancestors. Enterprising peddlers at the camp 
sell genuine Moria- relics and trophies.
Hornburi Whitebeard
Hornburi Whitebeard is a Dwarven scholar and trader 
who makes frequent visits to the Camp of the Stair Falls. 
Unlike other scholars in Erebor and the Blue Mountains, 
who pore over the tomes and ledgers carried out of 
Khazad- dûm before it fell, Hornburi studies Moria as 
it is now, piecing together what he can from rumours 
and the accounts of travellers and adventurers, trying 
to determine which parts of the ancient city have been 
destroyed beyond repair and which sections might one 
day be recovered. He knows that there are at least two 
different factions among the Orcs, one in the upper por -
tion of the city, and one in the lower — and that deeper 
still there waits some terrible danger.
He also trades in relics recovered from Moria. Horn-
buri’s relationship with the thieves of Tharbad (see page 
22) is complex; he tries to keep on their good side by 
passing them treasures of little worth, while hiding the 
true treasures recovered from Moria and smuggling them 
back to the Blue Mountains.
OCCUPATION:  Wandering Scholar
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Inquisitive, Stern
7. THE MANSIONS OF THRÁIN I
These unremarkable stone cottages were used by Dwarven 
lookouts in ancient days, and of late have been used by travel-
lers on the road. Few now know their history. It was here that 
King Thráin I, the young son of King Náin, dwelt for some 
years while he contemplated how Moria might be retaken. He 
quarrelled with Nyi of West Moria, which greatly delayed any 
attempt at reconquest — and that delay was terribly costly, for 
more of his followers drifted away to the safety of the Blue 
Mountains or to Dwarf- holds in Dunland.
It was here too that Thráin I brooded on old grudges, sit-
ting up late into the night toying with a gold ring inherited 
from his father, until he recalled an old mining colony, long- 
abandoned, far to the east. That colony became the fabulously 
wealthy Kingdom of Erebor.
Stories claim that Thráin buried treasures taken from 
Moria somewhere near these mansions before he departed 
for the Lonely Mountain.
Schemes and Troubles
CHANGING THE WORDS
As the Player- heroes already know how to open the Doors 
of Durin, you may wish to change the password. Some 
suggestions:
 ♦ A SPELL OF OPENING IS REQUIRED:  only a Magical 
Success using CRAFT  can open the door.
 ♦ A SECRET WORD IS REQUIRED:  the Company must 
discover this word in an ancient scroll kept in the Blue 
Mountains.
 ♦ A SIGN OF FRIENDSHIP IS REQUIRED:  those who 
would enter must declare their peaceful intentions 
and swear to do no harm inside the city.
 ♦ A MAGICAL SIGN IS REQUIRED:  only one who has 
studied the Elf- letters can draw the symbol that opens 
the door.
 ♦ A CHOICE IS REQUIRED:  a Player- hero seeking entry 
must touch the right symbol. An Elf must touch one 
of the two trees, a Man one of the crescent moons, or 
a Dwarf the anvil. Only members of the royal houses 
may touch the Star or Crown. Touch the wrong sym-
bol, and the door will not open for you.
THE POOL AT THE WEST-GATE
The records of Balin’s ill- fated expedition imply that the Orcs 
(or the Watcher in the Water) damaged the Gate- stream and 
created the deep, stagnant pool in order to trap the intruders 
in Moria. Conceivably, this tactic might be deployed against 
the Player- heroes — if they sufficiently annoy Malech or Gor -
gol, then the Orc- chieftain sends a band of Orcs west to seal 
the West- gate.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 154 =====

CHAPTER 5
150
The Deeps
The power of Moria endured throughout the Dark Years and the dominion 
of Sauron, for though Eregion was destroyed and the gates of Moria were 
shut, the halls of Khazad- dûm were too deep and strong and filled with a 
people too numerous and valiant for Sauron to conquer from without.
 
he Deeps of Khazad- dûm lie beneath the city. In 
ancient times, the Upper Deeps held many of the 
forges of the Dwarves, and the hammers never fell 
silent. Beneath them lie lower levels still, the old 
Lower Deeps. Untold generations of miners chased the veins 
of Mithril like hunters stalking prey through a forest of stone, 
delving mineshafts and galleries almost without end. As these 
upper mines were exhausted of ore, the mine- tunnels were 
reinforced and widened, and turned into dwelling- places and 
workshops for poorer Dwarves (many of whom hailed from 
the ruined cities of Nogrod and Belegost in the west).
The city above can be still appreciated as being carefully 
planned by its architects, even if a thousand years of war and 
neglect have ruined it. The Dwarrow delf has many great 
boulevards and high- ceilinged halls, many open caverns or 
grand plazas, courtyards and crossroads, all once lit by bril -
liant lamps of crystal. The city below, though, was a dimly- lit 
maze even before the fall of Moria; its streets were not laid 
out according to any plan or scheme, but trace the paths of 
long- exhausted veins of ore. Venture below the Upper Deeps, 
and a traveller enters the most confusing and endless laby -
rinth in all of Middle- earth.
The making of the Upper Deeps began long ago, in the 
dark days after the passing of Durin I. The successor kings 
envisioned a grand project to inspire their people after the 
absence of the father of their people — and also sought to 
prepare Khazad- dûm for war, for those were the years when 
Morgoth had defeated all the Elves who opposed him, and was 
Master of Middle- earth. The Dwarves feared that the might of 
the Enemy would be turned on them, and that Khazad- dûm 
would be the last redoubt of the Free Peoples, the mountain 
an island in the darkness.
The Upper Deeps, then, are smithies, refineries, factories 
and workshops on a scale unimaginable outside the works of 
Númenor in the Second Age, an armoury ready to equip a great 
host with Dwarf- forged mail and spears in tremendous numbers. 
All these suits of ancient armour still lie in store here, unused 
for more than six thousand years, preserved in vaults of stone 
— unless the Orcs have found these treasures and stolen them.
The foundries of the Upper Deeps were astounding, too, 
in their hunger for charcoal and coke. The Dwarves stoked 
them hot, and molten metal flowed in a torrential river. All is 
silent and cold, now, of course — or almost all. The Goblins 
still use some of the forges to make mischief.
SLAG-WORMS
…until they cooled and lay like twisted dragon-  
shapes vomited from the tormented earth…
The foundries of Moria were running full- blast 
when Durin’s Bane arose, and the heat from the 
Balrog’s wrath melted stone and steel alike. In 
places in the Deeps, a traveller may encounter 
these ‘slag- worms’ — long sinuous shapes of con -
gealed slag that dripped down shafts and pud -
dled in bizarre formations. The worms are just 
lumps of ore and ash, and cannot move — so any 
accounts by travellers of being stalked by writh -
ing slag- worms must be the result of madness or 
mistaking one lump of ash for another.
The slag- worms are strangely unlucky — as 
they congealed in precarious places, there are 
many tales among the Orcs of opening some 
long- sealed door or knocking through a wall, 
only to ‘release’ a slag- worm that toppled down 
and crushed the unlucky intruder. The Orcs regard 
slag- worms as a bad omen.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 155 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
151
RUMOUR
“The Dwarves of old forged mighty weapons, and laid them in store 
in an armoury deep beneath their city.”
OLD LORE
“The Armouries of the Third Deep were the heart of the Dwarven 
arsenal. Here were stored weapons and armour to equip a great 
army of Dwarves. Mail and helms they laid in store, axes and 
swords and spears innumerable. Here, too, they stored enchanted 
blades made by the masters of old; the peerless hand of Telchar, the 
matchless mind of Narvi, and the blessed works of Durin himself.”
Background
The Armouries were more than just storehouses; here was 
where the Dwarven Tunnel- guards were stationed. These 
Dwarven warriors defended the city against attacks from 
below; though Moria’s defences against attacks from with -
out were impenetrable, the Dwarves feared that Goblins 
might creep in through unknown tunnels or undermine 
the city’s gates.
The elite Tunnel- guards were specially 
trained and equipped for fighting in the 
darkness, with enchanted mattocks 
and shields bound in Moria- silver. 
When Durin’s Bane awoke, the 
Tunnel- guard were called to the 
defence of their city, and they 
gave their lives bravely in the 
battle of the Poisoned Halls. 
The Armouries, though, 
remain mostly intact, pro -
tected by the very poison that 
slew the Tunnel- guards.
The Armouries  
of the Third Deep 
- obscure -
Óin to seek for the upper armouries of Third Deep…
THE ARMOURIES  
OF THE THIRD DEEP
1
6
2
7
7
3
3
8
4
9
5
10
Locations
1. THE MUSTERING-YARD
This wide hall is a cross- roads in Moria, designed so that 
troops could quickly be dispatched to anywhere in the city. 
When Durin’s Bane arose, a host of warriors gathered here 
— and perished here, for none could stand against the Bal -
rog’s fiery presence.
Today, the Mustering- yard is held as a neutral ground 
between the Orcs of Udûn and the Orcs of Moria; should 
Malech need to confer with the Fire- priest Thu, they are likely 
to meet here.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 156 =====

CHAPTER 5
152
2. THE UPPER GATEHOUSE
Mighty gates, blasted asunder by the Balrog. It is clear that 
the Armouries have been at least partially despoiled.
3. THE FIRST ARMOURY
The First Armoury has been stripped bare. All that remains 
here are endless shelves and racks where swords and axes were 
stored. The Orcs treasure Dwarf- made weapons and armour, 
although they adapt them to their own horrible tastes. Many 
bent blades, slathered in Orc- poison and caked in dried gore, 
are good Dwarven steel beneath the mischief.
4. THE BROKEN HALL
The Broken Hall was a museum commemorating the battles 
where warriors from Khazad- dûm had fought and died. It 
was called ‘Broken’ because the Dwarves venerate the weap-
ons and armour of the fallen; here they displayed sundered 
shields, broken swords, cloven helms, splintered spears, 
notched axes and other weapons that had served well unto 
the end. Behind each relic, Dwarven artisans painted grand 
murals depicting heroic deeds — the battles against Morgoth, 
wars against Orcs and Dragons, the fall of Eregion, the War 
of the Last Alliance.
The Orcs have despoiled all this, of course; they toppled 
the displays of broken weapons and trampled the relics into 
the dirt. They smashed and defiled all the murals, and set up 
mocking tributes to Dwarven victories. Now there are crudely 
made depictions of the death of King Thrór, the fall of Moria, 
and other Dwarven defeats. At one end of the hall is a huge 
Orc- painting of a demonic figure — it might be Sauron, or 
Morgoth, or the Balrog, or an imagined ‘dark lord’ — laying 
waste to Middle- earth.
The sight of the despoiled hall is worth 1 point of Shadow 
(Dread), or 2 points for Dwarves.
A successful SCAN  test finds a crude Orc- painting 
depicting cornered Dwarves starving in an underground 
hall; despite the primitive rendition, the image of the door 
is recognizable as early- era architecture, suggesting these 
Dwarves perished in Old Moria. One of the Dwarves wears 
a crown — this is a depiction of the Last Redoubt of the 
Dwarves (see page 92).
5. THE SECOND ARMOURY
The second armoury, like the first, has been looted by the 
Orcs. Their efforts here, however, were not as thorough as in 
the first hall, and it is still possible to find some ancient weap-
ons among the debris with a successful SCAN  test. The Sec -
ond Armoury also held specialised war- gear — if the Player- 
heroes for some reason need a battering ram or parts of a 
siege engine, they can find such things here.
6. THE HALL OF THE MAULER
A gigantic armoured Great Cave- troll dwells here. When it 
was young, it grew to a prodigious size, and was so large and 
fearsome that it never lost a fight. Azog recruited the Troll as 
a prized champion. However, in the battle of Dimrill Dale, it 
was wounded by a heroic Dwarf, and for the first time in its 
life the Troll knew pain. It fled the field and came here to the 
armouries. Ever since, it has been obsessed with protecting 
itself from further injury, and now wears an absurd pile of 
ironmongery strapped to every inch of its hide.
The Mauler
Despite its obsession with self- protection, the Mauler 
knows that the best defence is to crush your enemies to 
a pulp as swiftly as possible. If attacked, it will try to kill 
one of the aggressors as gruesomely as possible, believ -
ing that this might convince the others to flee (it’s a tactic 
that worked more often than not).
THE MAULER
Brutish, Lumbering
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
10
ENDURANCE
80
MIGHT
2
HATE
10
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
5
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Crush 3 (6/12, Seize), Maul 3 
(8/16, Break Shield)
FELL ABILITIES:  Dull- Witted. Player- heroes can attempt a 
special combat task against the creature while in For -
ward stance. The acting player makes a RIDDLE  roll as the 
main action for the round; on a success the Mauler loses 
1 point of Hate, plus 1 point for each Success icon .
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts damage 
to the Mauler that would cause it to go to zero Endur -
ance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if the 
Mauler is still alive, its Endurance score is set back at half 
its maximum rating.
Strike Fear.  Spend 1 Hate to make all Player- heroes 
in sight gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). Those who fail 
their Shadow test are daunted and cannot spend Hope 
for the rest of the fight.
Thick Hide.  Spend 1 Hate point to gain (2d)  on a 
Protection roll.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 157 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
153
7. THE POISONED HALLS
Once the Twelfth and Fourteenth Halls of Second Deep, this 
is where Dwarven captains met in council — and where they 
made their stand against Durin’s Bane. The Balrog unleashed 
a terrible poison upon them, a noxious breath that no helm 
nor face- mask could guard against. The bodies of the flower of 
Dwarven knighthood still lie where they fell as though sleep-
ing, preserved against rot and vermin by the very poison that 
slew them. These halls contain many treasures — maps of the 
city and the ancient world, treatises on siege- craft and build-
ing, texts on fighting techniques and battles fought and won.
Searching the chamber discovers an unfinished letter, 
scribbled on a scrap of paper a thousand years ago and pre -
served by the poison. It reports that the Marshal of the Armies 
has fallen in battle in the Sixteenth Hall of the Fifth Deep, 
and his key has been lost with him. The King must send his 
key to the Armoury immediately so they can… — and there 
the letter ends with a scrawl as the scribe died.
See The Poison of the Armouries, on page 154.
8. THE UPPER ARMOURY
The Upper Armoury is mostly intact — because it too is 
poisoned. The corpses of Goblins lie scattered near the 
entranceway, overcome by the substance that lingers here. 
Player- heroes who rush in and brave the poison can grab 
Dwarf- forged weapons and armour from the racks here; the 
weapons are well- made but unexceptional, for the true trea -
sures are stored on the level below.
9. THE KING’S DOOR
The door leading to the Lower Armoury bears the Crown-  
and- Anvil of Durin, flanked by images of Dwarven heroes in 
full armour. This door requires a key to open, and such keys 
were held only by the King and the Marshal of the Armies 
of the City. The King’s key is in the Last Redoubt (see page 
92); the Marshal’s key was taken by Goblins down to Gob -
lin Village (see page 154).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 158 =====

CHAPTER 5
154
10. THE LOWER ARMOURY
The Lower Armoury holds the martial treasures of the 
Dwarves. At the very least, it is a Greater Hoard that con -
tains at least three Famous Weapons or Armour; if Durin’s 
Axe survives to the present day, it is here.
Schemes and Troubles
THE POISON OF THE ARMOURIES
The Balrog’s poison is dreadful beyond imagining. It counts 
as a grievous Endurance loss from poison, but those exposed 
must roll for damage every minute. If the Player- heroes take 
careful precautions — all skin covered, a wet cloth across the 
mouth, chewing healing herbs — then the poison becomes 
severe (roll each hour).
DURIN’S AXE
According to the traditions of the Longbeards, the Axe of 
Durin was forged in the Elder Days of the world by Aulë the 
Smith. The axe was the weapon of the Kings, and was wielded 
by the King or by his champion in the defence of the city. It 
is a Great Axe with the Rune- scored, Superior Grievous and 
Superior Keen Enchanted Rewards. If a Dwarf wields it, the 
Axe also immediately displays the Flame of Hope and Gleam of 
Terror Enchanted Rewards (they do not need to be unlocked).
Claiming Durin’s Axe raises the Eye Awareness of the 
Company by 4 instantly.
Goblin Village 
- hidden -
Swish, smack! Whip crack! 
Batter and beat! Yammer and bleat! 
Work, work! Nor dare to shirk, 
While Goblins quaff, and Goblins laugh, 
Round and round far underground Below, my lad!
RUMOUR
“There’s a Goblin market down in the depths, where they trade stolen 
treasures and make merry.”
OLD LORE
None.
Background
Although Goblin Village is technically a Hidden Landmark, 
that is only for outsiders. Every Goblin in the Misty Mountains 
knows this place. Goblin Village is the only place close to a 
neutral settlement that Moria has; neutral, that is, if you are 
an Orc. It is located in the Lower Deeps, in an old Dwarven 
market square. The Goblins have riddled the place with tun-
nels leading down into the Mines. These delvings connect to 
other, deeper tunnels — one winding north towards Goblin 
Town and Mount Gundabad, the other running south, slip -
ping through the guts of the mountains until it emerges in a 
dark vale just north of Fangorn Forest.
In years past, all Mithril gathered in Moria was sent 
east, to the Necromancer’s fortress of Dol Guldur. After the 
Necromancer was driven from his fastness in Mirkwood and 
the strength of the Orcs shattered in the awful year of 2941, 
the regular Mithril tribute went instead to Mount Gundabad. 
Now that Sauron has reasserted himself in Mordor, the pre -
cious metal should go south again — but Mordor is very, 
very far away, and Gundabad is much closer (and Durin’s 
Bane even more), so the Goblins hedge their bets and split 
the tribute. Both Malech One- eye (see page 114) and Thu 
the Firespeaker (see page 163) have agents and enforcers 
in Goblin Village, trying to ensure they get the “Dragon’s 
share” of Mithril.
Locations
1. THE MARKET SQUARE
This wide square is the heart of Goblin Village. Fires burn 
here constantly, roasting unidentifiable meat and spitting 
sparks high into the dark. Goblins cavort in the flickering 
shadows, laughing and tormenting one another. These are 
all young Goblins, spawned since the Battle of Five Armies 
and raised on tales of fearsome Dwarven axes and giant bears.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 159 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
155
Like the Mustering- yard, the Market Square is neutral 
ground between the Orcs of Moria and Orcs of Udûn; how -
ever, Malech would never hold an important meeting here, 
as Goblin Village is full of spies and informants. The market 
trades in many things as well as secrets — Mithril and other 
scavenged treasures, for slaves and labourers, for Goblin mer-
cenaries, for food (mushrooms, bats and pale cave- fish), and 
for favours. The market is run by an ancient and disturbingly 
friendly Goblin called Granny Goblin. She is canny enough 
to play the three faction leaders against one another (and 
she is kin to both the late Great Goblin and Gorgol himself, 
so they cannot dismiss her easily), and might even trade with 
outsiders if they have something worth selling.
The market is guarded by “Granny’s little boys”, big Orc 
Guard bruisers, but if there is trouble with outsiders, the Goblins 
scatter into the Under Warren instead of fighting in the open.
2. THE HOUSES OF THE EXILES
The Dwarven cities of Nogrod and Belegost were the peers 
of Khazad- dûm in age and majesty (though, of course, they 
lacked the Mithril which was found only here). When the 
cities of the West fell in the cataclysm at the end of the First 
Age, the lords and nobles of Nogrod and Belegost fled to 
Moria. They were welcomed and given shelter, but Khazad-  
dûm already had its own lords and nobles, and the newcom-
ers found themselves without prestige or influence — and 
in many cases, with dwindling fortunes and no prospect of 
earning more wealth. Families that had once dwelt in man -
sions and owned vast mines now found themselves living in 
new- built hovels in the Lower Deeps, and forced to labour 
to earn their keep. (Ironically, the same fate would befall the 
aristocracy of the Longbeards once Moria fell, when the great 
and wealthy lords of Moria were forced to beg at the doors 
of the Blue Mountains for shelter.
Granny Goblin
Imagine a Hobbit matriarch: conniving, manipulative, capa -
ble of both great kindness and cruelty, older and wiser 
and smarter and meaner than everyone around her. Then 
take away the capacity for kindness, give her the few sharp 
teeth left in her crooked gob, and put a malicious twinkle 
in her eye, and you have Granny Goblin:  Lobelia Sackville-  
Baggins if she swapped her umbrella for a skinning knife.
Among her other skills, she is a talented healer and 
brewer.
OCCUPATION:  Entrepreneur
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Cunning, Talkative
GOBLIN VILLAGE
1
2
3
4
5
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 160 =====

CHAPTER 5
156
“Thráin said to Thorin Oakenshield: ‘will you come with me 
back to the anvil? Or will you beg your bread at proud doors?’ ‘To 
the anvil,’ answered Thorin, ‘the hammer at least will keep the arms 
strong, until they can wield sharper tools again.’”
These families became known as the Exiles, and were 
the cause of much strife in Moria. They built new sprawling 
homes in the Lower Deeps, turning many mine shafts into 
great burrows. Often resentful and mistrustful of the Long -
beards, the Houses of the Exiles were like cities unto them -
selves, connected by secret passages and hidden ways so they 
could plot and trade secrets. Now, the Houses of the Exiles 
have been taken by the Goblins, who mockingly continue to 
use the names and heraldry of the former occupants. A Gob-
lin of Goblin Village might introduce himself as Grishnar of 
the House of the Firebeards.
3. GRANNY’S HOUSE
Granny Goblin has taken the old Counting- house as her cot-
tage; it is crammed full of dried mushrooms, oozes, unguents 
and other ingredients for her potions. It is also inhabited by 
Granny’s pets — rats that she has bred to be as large as dogs.
Hidden in a chest under the floorboards is a cache of 
small ingots of True Mithril, for a total value of 10 Treasure 
points.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 161 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
157
4. THE FEAST-HALL
The Goblins gather in this hall — once a Dwarven auditorium, 
where tales of vanished Nogrod and Belegost were told and 
retold — for their ghastly feasts. Such feasts are held infre -
quently, usually when there is some victory to celebrate. Every 
Goblin in the village attends these celebrations, leaving the 
rest of the area mostly unguarded.
5. THE UNDER WARREN
A network of tunnels runs beneath the market. Some were 
dug by Dwarves; others by the Goblins. Tunnels from here 
run all the way down to the mines — and north to Goblin 
Town near the High Pass. The tunnels are unnavigable by out-
siders — a Goblin guide is needed to traverse this labyrinth.
Schemes and Troubles
FOR TRADE IN GOBLIN VILLAGE
The market at the Goblin- Village always has something inter-
esting for sale. Roll a Feat die, or choose an entry on the table 
below, to determine what…
GOBLIN VILLAGE GOODS FOR TRADE
FEAT DIE 
ROLL GOOD FOR TRADE
A prisoner from the surface
1 A crudely hand- drawn map of the way to a 
 Hidden Landmark or exit from Moria
2 An ancient book of Dwarven lore
3 Goblin- clothing, enough to make a convincing 
disguise
4–7 A Useful Item — roll a Success die for the 
related skill
1: A set of Goblin traps for HUNTING
2: Goblin waymeat for TRAVEL
3: Granny’s healing cordial for HEALING
4: Old Dwarven tools for CRAFT
5: A heavy Goblin cloak for STEALTH
6: A set of marked cards for RIDDLE
8 Mysterious and potent mushrooms
9 Secrets about one of the Orc- lords
10 A chunk of looted Mithril
A key to a locked door or some item that the 
Player- heroes are seeking
SMASHING AND GRABBING
If any of the Player- heroes are captured in Moria, or if they 
lose some treasured item, then there is a good chance of the 
inhabitants of Goblin Village finding them.
THE INVISIBLE GOBLINS
Many years ago, three Goblins exploring the ruins of West 
Moria found three gold rings. These were lesser magic rings, 
but still potent, capable of making their wearers invisible. 
Instead of giving these treasures to their chieftain, the Gob -
lins became thieves and assassins, sneaking invisibly through 
Moria — taking what they wished, killing who they wished.
When each Goblin became too old to make use of the ring, 
they passed it onto another Goblin, and they onto another 
and another down the line. The Invisible Goblins now dwell 
in Goblin Village, unseen and unknown guardians of the lair. 
Only Granny Goblin knows the current keepers of the rings.
The rings each possess a Blessing of STEALTH .
Invisible Goblins
Ordinary Goblins who got particularly lucky…
INVISIBLE GOBLINS
Malicious, Stealthy
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
2
ENDURANCE
8
MIGHT
1
HATE
2
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
1
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Jagged Knife 3* (2/14, Pierce)
* When invisible, their Combat Proficiency is 5 against 
Player- heroes who cannot see them.
FELL ABILITIES:  Invisible.  This creature is invisible, and 
AWARENESS , SCAN , and attack rolls against it lose (2d) , 
while the creature’s attack rolls are Favoured  and gain 
(1d)  against Player- heroes who cannot see it. A Player-  
hero who obtains a Magical success on an AWARENESS  or 
SCAN  roll can see the creature normally and ignores all 
penalties for the rest of the fight.
Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 162 =====

CHAPTER 5
158
The Ledge of Woe 
- obscure -
A wide and echoing passage led back from the door towards the mountain-side.  
It was dimly lit with torches flaring in brackets on the walls, but its distant end 
was lost in gloom. Many doors and openings could be seen on this side and that; 
but it was empty save for two or three more bodies sprawling on the floor.
RUMOUR
“The abyss spanned by Durin’s Bridge is bottomless, the fall is end-
less. You can hear the screams of those who fell into the pit, echoing 
up eternally.”
OLD LORE
“The Dwarven kings had a prison near the Second Hall, where ene-
mies of the city were kept until they repented.”
Background
Far, far below Durin’s Bridge, one narrow tunnel opens up 
onto a small ledge overlooking the bottomless chasm. The 
Orcs use this ledge as a prison; they have barred the tunnel 
with a crude iron gate, and thrust prisoners through it onto 
the ledge. They then bet how long the prisoners will endure 
before hunger and cold and oppressive darkness eat away at 
their minds, and they try to fly…
The cries of prisoners on the Ledge of Woe echo up the 
chasm, and can distantly be heard in the Second Hall (see 
page 88) far above.
Locations
1. ORC GUARD-POST
A double- strength guard post, with twice as many Orc Soldiers 
as there are Player- heroes, plus a rabble of lesser foes. The 
guards here can call for reinforcements from the Fortress of 
Malech (see page 110) if attacked.
2. GRIMNAR’S CHAMBER
This is the personal chamber of the gaoler of the Ledge of 
Woe. It’s a small square room, whose original purpose is lost. 
It is so small that it is a marvel that Grimnar finds it comfort-
able (he probably finds it reassuring that no one can lie in 
here in ambush).
Grimnar the Gaoler
Grimnar is the gaoler of the Ledge of Woe. He is an old 
Great Orc Bodyguard ; like Malech, he fought at the Battle 
of Five Armies, and still bears a Hatred  against Dwarves, 
Elves, and Bardings. He was replaced by Yagul the Snatcher 
in Malech’s inner circle, and resents Yagul’s influence over 
his former comrade.
Grimnar kept one treasure from the battlefield — a 
Dwarven dagger, wickedly sharp and beautiful. It gleams 
even in the darkness, as if reflecting unseen daylight. He 
uses it to remind prisoners of the beauty of the surface 
world that they will never see again…
OCCUPATION:  Gaoler
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Cruel, Watchful
3. BEARDSCORCHER’S CHAMBER
Beardscorcher is Grimnar’s assistant — a secret adherent of 
the Orcs of Udûn cult. Braziers burn sullenly in this chamber, 
and the air is thick with foul smoke. As his nickname suggests, 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 163 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
159
Beardscorcher uses fire to force the truth out of prisoners 
given to him for questioning — and sometimes, if he thinks 
he hears a voice in the flames, he ‘frees’ the prisoners by 
leading them to the Udûn- temple (see page 161).
4. THE LEDGE OF WOE
The ‘prison without bars’ on the edge of the chasm. The 
Dwarves only ever kept a single prisoner here, and that pris -
oner had ample space to walk about — as long as they did not 
walk too far forwards. The Orcs, however, cram far more pris-
oners onto the narrow ledge, forcing the unlucky ones to cling 
to the rock face where the ledge is too narrow to stand safely.
At any time, there are at least half- a-dozen prisoners here; 
mostly unaligned Orcs who strayed into Malech’s domain, or 
prisoners snatched from the Dimrill Stair, from Orc- raids into 
the Anduin Vales, or marched through the tunnels from the 
northern strongholds.
5. PASSAGE TO THE FORTRESS OF MALECH
This well- travelled route through the corridors of Moria is 
easy to follow, for Orcs tramp this way regularly. Thick soot 
from torches stains the ceiling; the walls are scarred with Orc- 
graffiti. While easy to follow, it is also dangerous — travellers 
on this passage are almost certain to encounter Malech’s Orcs.
6. PASSAGE TO THE WAILING STAIRS
Similarly, this route to the Wailing Stairs is heavily trafficked 
— and well guarded. Travellers going this way are similarly 
likely to run into trouble (and, if captured, get marched back 
to the Ledge of Woe as captives). Beardscorcher sometimes 
‘arranges’ for prisoners to go missing en route to the mines, 
sending them instead to the Temple of Udûn.
7. THE WAILING STAIRS
The Wailing Stairs is a long, steep road that leads down to 
the active Mines of Moria, currently held by the followers of 
Malech One- eye. The Stairs are currently the safest extant 
route to the mines, so Malech uses the stair to send Slave-  
labourers down to dig; their weeping and wailing as they are 
marched to their doom gives the Stairs its name.
The Wailing Stairs descend via many twists and turns to 
the Den of Forgotten Stars far far below (see page 166). It 
takes more than a day to descend the Stairs, and longer still to 
climb back up them when laden with ore, and there are many 
places for ambush along the way. The Orcs, therefore, travel 
the Stairs in guarded processions, moving slaves in groups 
of a dozen or more.
The other routes to the mines are all far more perilous, 
forcing travellers to risk cave- in, flood — or flames…
THE LEDGE OF WOE
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 164 =====

CHAPTER 5
160
Schemes and Troubles
PRISONERS OF THE LEDGE OF WOE
If the Company comes upon this location by chance, and the 
Lore master is in the mood for a random complication, roll a 
Feat die to determine who is on the Ledge.
PRISONERS OF THE LEDGE
FEAT DIE 
ROLL PRISONER
Imri the Traitor (see page 113 ), who attempts 
to lure the Company into Yagul’s clutches
1–2 The corpse of a prisoner who perished scratch -
ing at the gates.
3–4 A swarm of hungry rats; no real threat to most 
adventurers, although failing with an  on a 
VALOUR  test means the hero panics and might 
slip over the edge.
5–6 A Goblin from Goblin Village; if freed, the 
Goblin will treacherously raise the alarm. How -
ever, if challenged to a riddle- game for their 
freedom, the Goblin is bound by the rules to 
answer fairly.
7–8 The ledge contains a prisoner from another 
Orc- tribe (1: Orcs of Udûn; 2–5: Goblin Vil -
lage; 6: Mordor- orcs). The prisoner is eager for 
revenge against Malech, and offers a temporary 
alliance with the Company.
9–10 A prisoner (1–3: a Man; 4–5: a Dwarf; 6: an Elf) 
captured in Dimrill Dale.
Someone the Company has met before in 
other (and doubtless better!) circumstances. It 
might be a fellow adventurer, some Beorning 
or Woodman they have encountered before, 
a Hobbit burglar from the Shire, a prospective 
Patron like one of the characters in Chapter 2  — 
or even a Wizard like Gandalf or Radagast!
ESCAPING THE LEDGE OF WOE
If the Player- heroes do end up on the Ledge of Woe, there 
are three possible ways out.
 ♦ A DEAL WITH GRIMNAR:  Grimnar has heard rumours 
from his old friend Gorlakh the Doorwarden (see 
page 84) about the arrival of the Mordor- orcs, and 
has given some thought to switching sides and joining 
them. First, though, he would need to actually find 
them — he knows they are up somewhere on the Red -
horn Pass, but he is not going to go wandering on the 
surface without a sure idea where he is going. There 
are dangerous things up there, and he should know. 
If Grimnar does cut a deal with any Player- heroes, he 
keeps one of the Company prisoner on the Ledge of 
Woe until the rest return.
 ♦ OUT OF THE FRYING PAN:  Beardscorcher sometimes 
smuggles prisoners to the Temple of Udûn — and he 
is especially likely to send troublesome or obviously 
wounded prisoners there. If a prisoner looks like they 
would be no good in the mine, then it is the fire for 
them!
 ♦ THE LONG CLIMB:  Climbing up the chasm would be 
a feat worthy of legend. It would require a Daunting 
Skill Endeavour, certainly involving rolls of ATHLET -
ICS , knowing that a single failure with an  means 
slipping and falling into the darkness from which no 
mortal returns.
THE EAGLE PADROVAL
If you are using the Fate of Eagles  plot (see page 
84), then there may be one really strange pris -
oner on the Ledge of Woe — the young eagle 
Padroval. The Orcs have bound him in chains of iron 
so he cannot fly, and muzzled him so he cannot peck.
If freed from his bonds, a successful HEALING  
test is required to restore his flight. Padroval is a 
young eagle; he can carry a single rider, or maybe 
two Hobbits at a time.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 165 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
161
The Udûn-temple 
- hidden -
“Ghâsh!” muttered Gandalf. “I wonder if that is what they meant: that the lower levels are on fire.”
RUMOUR
None. No rumour of the Udûn- temple has ever reached the 
outside world. If the Player- heroes question Orcs or other 
denizens of Moria, they learn only one word — Ghâsh.
OLD LORE
None. No record exists of this structure.
Background
Moria does not belong to the Orcs.
None of the warring chieftains — not Malech or Naglur, 
not Gorgol, not even Azog — was truly Lord of Moria.
Indeed, the Orcs are latecomers here.
The true Lord of Moria arose in fire a thousand years ago, 
and drove the Dwarves from their ancestral halls. For many 
centuries, Moria was empty, save for the Balrog. Silent, save 
for its dreadful footsteps echoing in the deep.
Slowly, slowly, the Goblins crept in. They snuck in through 
hidden tunnels and caves, gingerly probing the house of their 
old foes. They found gold here, and steel, and Mithril; they 
found gems and jewels lying about, glittering in the light of 
fading lamps. They laughed, and cackled, and rejoiced at 
the downfall of the Dwarves and the bounty of treasure that 
lay before them.
Then flames leaped in the shadow.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 166 =====

CHAPTER 5
162
The temple — and fortress — of the Orcs of Udûn was 
not built by the Dwarves. The Orcs built it themselves, in 
a vast cavern in the Lower Deeps. The top of the temple 
ziggurat is open and smoke and foul fumes issue from it, 
rolling down the sides to pool on the cavern floor. Narrow 
elevated walkways zig- zag from the temple doors across the 
cavern, and the Orcs of Udûn use these to stay above the 
foul reek. (The ornate leather masks worn by the worship -
pers of the Balrog have a practical purpose, shielding them 
from the fumes.)
Within the temple are chambers for Thu and his followers, 
holding cells for sacrifices and offerings, and a treasury con-
taining all the relics that the Orcs have looted. The central 
chamber of the dome, beneath the opening, is a great pyre 
where offerings are consigned to the flames of Udûn that 
blaze there eternally. The Orcs of Udûn dance around the 
fire, chanting and praying, and sometimes thrust a portion of 
their bodies into the fire in mimicry of Thu — usually, a hand 
or arm — in the hopes of attracting a blessing. They insist 
that their burnt limbs are infused with the Balrog’s might.
Locations
1. THE REEKING CAVE
The floor of this cavern is shrouded in swirling sulphurous 
fumes; the ground is caked with ash. Should a traveller 
climb down and move along the floor of the cave, then their 
STEALTH  tests are Favoured, but they suffer a moderate Endur-
ance loss from suffocation as they inhale the toxic smoke. 
Strange yellow Cave- spiders as big as a Goblin’s head live in 
this cavern, apparently thriving in the fumes, and they spin 
webs as thick as a Dwarf’s beard to catch their prey.
2. WALKWAYS
Narrow and precarious rope bridges connect the various cave 
entrances and watchposts.
3. WATCHPOSTS
Orc sentries are stationed at each of these towers or rocky 
pillars. If the Temple is ever threatened by enemies, they use 
axes to cut the rope bridges.
THE UDÛN-TEMPLE
1
2
2
3
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
7
8
9
3
 3
3
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 167 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
163
4. TEMPLE ENTRANCES
The three arched entrances to the temple each display the 
same crude drawing of Durin’s Bane — a roughly human -
oid figure, Man-  shaped but greater, with a flaming mane. 
The thing’s body is drawn in black pitch; the fiery hair is 
smeared blood. While the depiction is ugly and Orcish, it 
has an undeniable power; those who would pass through one 
of the arches gain 2 points of Shadow (Dread) and increase 
the Eye Awareness by 2.
5. ORC-WARRENS
While Thu the Firespeaker commands far fewer Orcs than 
Malech, his followers are much more devoted. They nest here 
in these chambers, the air thick with smoke and Orc- stench, 
nursing their ceremonial burns and muttering the word ghâsh 
over and over in an endless litany.
6. THE CHAMBER OF FIRE
The Temple was built around an ancient well. The shaft 
goes down and down in the depths, down to a cavern near 
the lair of Durin’s Bane. At times, the Balrog passes through 
that cavern, sending flames and smoke up the shaft to pour 
into the chamber of fire. Thu reads portents in the sparks 
and smoke, and sacrifices are hurled down to propitiate 
the Balrog.
The Balrog can ascend the shaft on wings of fire, if it 
needs to travel from the depths to the upper levels in haste. 
Conceivably, a Player- hero could descend the shaft to reach 
the Balrog’s Throne (see page 170).
The Udûn- cult gather here for their blasphemous 
ceremonies.
7. PRISON
Victims captured by the Udûn- cult (or brought by Beard -
scorcher, see page 158) are imprisoned in these cells until 
it is time for them to be offered to the flames. Instead of iron 
bars or chains, the Orcs use foul vapours to keep prisoners 
trapped here. See Prisoners of Udûn, page 165.
8. APOTHECARY OF AZOR
While the cult does keep weapons and relics here, this cham-
ber is mostly crammed with jars and pots containing various 
poisons brewed up by Thu. It is here that Thu creates his 
Azor- assassins, here that he distils fear into a smoking bowl, 
here that he prepares sacrifices for the well of fire.
Here, too, is the treasury of the cult. Gold and other trea-
sures are thrown down the pit as offerings; their treasure is 
in Dwarven steel and weapons of war.
9. THU’S CHAMBER
The head of the Udûn- cult dwells in this chamber. His room 
lacks all luxuries, all trophies; he exists solely to serve the 
Balrog, and sees himself as nothing but an instrument of its 
will. The only item of furniture is a burning brazier, so Thu 
can stare into the dancing flames.
Thu the Firespeaker
Thu believes that Durin’s Bane chose him as its Prophet 
and Champion. Certainly, the Balrog has touched Thu; the 
Orc is horribly burned, his hide scorched so he looks like 
something scaly, or a log that was left in the embers of 
a camp- fire. His eyes burn like fiery sparks in the dark -
ness of the tunnels. Thu claims the Balrog speaks to him 
through the flames, and teaches him the ways and wor -
ship of Morgoth, True King of Middle- earth. Whether Thu 
is mad, or if he has a genuine connection to the Balrog is 
a mystery, but the burnt Orc is certainly possessed of a 
brightly burning spirit. His voice is a croaky whisper, like 
ash is cracking and flaking inside his throat, but it has a 
strangely compelling charisma. His insights are keen for 
an Orc, and he knows secrets of Sorcery that other Orcs 
have long forgotten.
Secrecy is his first priority. Thu — or his master — fears 
discovery, so anything that draws attention to Moria must 
be snuffed out. Intruders must be slain before they can 
report back to the outside world. Thu is old enough to 
remember the foolishness of Azog at the gates, when he 
slew the old Dwarf- King and tossed Thrór’s head back 
out. Had Thu been there that day, then Thrór would have 
vanished into the darkness of Moria, and no word of his 
fate would ever have come back to the Blue Mountains 
or Iron Hills. The defeat at the Battle of Five Armies was 
an unexpected boon for Thu, as it guaranteed the Orcs 
would not dare set foot outside Moria for years afterwards. 
Now, Thu’s chief worry is the rumbling rumour of Sau -
ron’s return to Mordor — and the attendant demand for 
tribute of Mithril.
Thu’s attitude towards intruders in Moria, therefore, 
depends on their intentions. If the stranger is just passing 
through Moria, then it is in Thu’s interest to speed them 
along, so they leave quickly and never return. He orders 
his followers to avoid contact with outsiders, to let them 
think that Moria is empty and deserted.
Explorers, however, must perish in silence and darkness, 
leaving no clue as to their fate. Even the other Orcs can -
not be permitted to know the true nature of Durin’s Bane…
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 168 =====

CHAPTER 5
164
THU THE FIRESPEAKER
Faithful, Secretive
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
7
ENDURANCE
28
MIGHT
2
HATE
7
PARRY
+1
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Torch- staff 3 (4/14, Fiery Blow*)
* The attack burns the target, inflicting a severe 
Endurance loss from fire damage.
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Dreadful Spells.  Spend 1 Hate to make one Player-  
hero gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery). Targets who fail 
their Shadow test or who are Miserable burst into flame, 
suffering a grievous Endurance loss from fire damage.
Heartless.  Thu the Firespeaker is not affected by the 
Intimidate Foe combat task, unless a Magical success is 
obtained.
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts damage 
to Thu the Firespeaker that would cause him to go to 
zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, 
if Thu the Firespeaker is still alive, his Endurance score is 
set back at half its maximum rating.
Strike Fear.  Spend 1 Hate to make all Player- heroes 
in sight gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). Those who fail 
their Shadow test are daunted and cannot spend Hope 
for the rest of the fight.
Yell of Triumph.  Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
allies in the fight.
Schemes and Troubles
RITES OF UDÛN
Worship of the Balrog extends beyond the Orc- cultists who 
dwell at the temple. Many of the unaligned Orcs — and even 
a considerable number of Malech’s followers — gather here 
for rites. Orcs, by nature, serve the Shadow and so are drawn 
to power and cruelty in any form. Roll or choose the current 
state of the Udûn- temple when the Company visits it.
ÛDUN-TEMPLE’S BLASPHEMIES
FEAT DIE 
ROLL ACTIVITY  
Greater Ceremony.  A great many Orcs have 
gathered in the Temple — and they have pre -
pared sacrifices that have drawn the Balrog’s 
attention. A terrible presence  is here. This has 
the following effects:
 ♦ Add 3 to the Hate score of all Orcs;
 ♦ Upon arrival, all Player- heroes gain 3 points 
of Shadow (Dread);
 ♦ Any Eye Awareness gains made at this Land -
mark are tripled.
1–2 Lesser Ceremony.  Many Orcs have gathered 
here to observe the rites and offer sacrifices, but 
they have not yet roused Durin’s Bane. Still, any 
Eye Awareness gains made at this Landmark are 
doubled.
3–4 Ceremonial Processions.  The worship of the flame 
of Udûn is not confined to the temple. The Orcs 
go abroad through the lower levels in ceremonial 
processions, beating drums and sounding war-  
horns to call the Balrog. This clamour distracts the 
Orcs, making it easier for the Player- heroes to 
sneak about or avoid the Temple precincts.
5–6 Orcs in the Tunnels. Orcs are abroad, either trav-
elling to the Temple or departing after a rite. The 
Company could follow the Orcs to the Temple or 
some other Landmark like Goblin Village (see page 
154) or the Fortress of Malech (see page 110).
7– 10 Silence in the Temple.  The Temple is quiet; other 
than the Udûn- cultists, there are no additional 
Orcs here.
Stupefied by Fumes.  Pungent smoke from the 
Well of Fire makes the Orcs sleepy or confused. 
This counts as a Lesser Ceremony, but the Orcs 
are made Weary.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 169 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
165
PRISONERS OF UDÛN
New prisoners are forced to inhale the steam rising from a 
bowl containing boiling water and certain herbs known only 
to Thu. These fumes fill them with overwhelming terror, giv-
ing them nightmarish visions of being trapped in the dun -
geons of Angband many Ages ago. Anyone trying to leave the 
prison must make an Ill- favoured VALOUR  roll. If the roll fails, 
the prisoner gains 3 Shadow points and is frozen by fear, losing 
(1d) on further attempts. They may keep trying if they wish…
A successful ENHEARTEN  roll from someone unaffected 
by the fumes removes the penalty.
AZOR AND THE POISONS OF THU
Among the Orcs of the Misty Mountains, Azor is a name of 
terror, a name to frighten Orc- whelps, as ghastly as the name 
of Beorn or the cry ‘Baruk Khazâd! Khazâd ai- mênu!’ Azor, the 
tales say, is a fiery- eyed assassin who protects the Udûn- cult; 
anyone who crosses Thu is doomed to be slain by the dreaded 
Azor. Some accounts insist that Azor is a Skin- changer, able to 
change his appearance at will. Sometimes, Azor appears as a 
mighty Troll, but next time he is an easily overlooked Goblin. 
Anyone might be Azor — so sleep lightly!
In truth, Azor is a title, not a name. The role of Azor 
is given by Thu to an Orc chosen for a special task. Thu 
knows how to brew a potion that grants the imbiber greatly 
enhanced strength and speed — but burns them up from the 
inside, until at last the fire consumes them. To be chosen as 
Azor, then, is to die in glory and become a living sacrifice to 
Durin’s Bane.
A creature under the effects of the Azor- rite gains the 
following bonuses:
 ♦ Attribute Level is increased by 2;
 ♦ Might is increased by 1;
 ♦ Endurance is increased by 20;
 ♦ Hate is increased by 2;
 ♦ They gain the Fell Abilities Hideous Toughness, Horrible 
Strength and Snake- like Speed;
 ♦ Whenever the creature rolls a  on any test, they auto-
matically suffer 1 Wound;
 ♦ When the creature suffers a Wound, anyone engaged 
with it suffers a severe Endurance loss from the flames 
that burst from the creature;
 ♦ When the creature is slain, it bursts into fire and is 
consumed.
ANCIENT RUINS
As the Dwarves delved deep, some tales claim they 
found the remnants of ancient structures, chambers 
and hallways older than the oldest works of Durin. These 
chambers were a mystery to the Dwarves, though the 
Wise among them guessed that these halls were made by 
the first Elves as they made their way west to Valinor, in 
the days before Durin woke or the sun and moon danced 
in the sky. Perhaps the Elves did encamp here, in the 
shadow of the newborn mountains, before carrying on 
west — or these ruins could be older still. Middle- earth 
lay in darkness and silence for untold ages before the 
Elves awoke, and who knows what spirits or creatures 
moved across the face of the unnamed land?
Another, darker, possibility — the great Enemy, Mor -
goth, prepared many fortresses in the North, in antici -
pation of his war with the Elves and the Lords of Valinor. 
Conceivably, he might have built a secret lair beneath 
the Misty Mountains, a last redoubt where he could hide 
if Angband fell. Durin’s Bane might have fled to this ref -
uge to slumber away the Ages, surrounded by forgotten 
weapons and monsters from the pits of Morgoth.
The true nature of the Ancient Ruins, if they exist, 
is left up to the Lore master — these chambers are bur -
ied so deep that it is unlikely that any Player- heroes 
will ever walk here, and their secrets may never be 
discovered.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 170 =====

CHAPTER 5
166
The Mines
And since the Dwarves fled, no one dares to seek the shafts and treasuries down 
in the deep places: they are drowned in water — or in a shadow of fear.
 
he fabled mines are the deepest delving of the 
Dwarves, as they chased the Mithril- veins. There 
are many natural perils this far underground, such 
as cave- ins, flooding or foul air. When the Dwarves 
dug here, they forged mighty pumps to drain the flood- waters, 
and shafts to bring in breathable air. A thousand years of 
neglect, however, has choked the pumps and shafts, and now 
the mines are extremely dangerous. The tunnels are exceed-
ingly cramped and confusing; as the Mithril veins petered 
out, the Dwarves dug in every direction in search of more 
ore under Caradhras. Some of the tunnels are barely big 
enough for a single Dwarf to squeeze through.
The Orcs dare not risk traversing the lowest portions of 
the mines, especially not the veins under Caradhras where 
Durin’s Bane dwells. However, they have reopened the older 
iron mines for their own purposes. The growing Orc- horde 
needs weapons and armour, and from Moria to Gundabad 
the mountains ring with the sound of hammer on anvil…
The Den of Forgotten Stars 
- hidden -
The Dwarves delved deep at that time, seeking beneath Barazinbar for Mithril, 
the metal beyond price that was becoming yearly ever harder to win.
RUMOUR
“The Dwarves dug for thousands of years, seeking Mithril. There’s 
still piles of it, down under the mountain. A fortune awaits you 
there, if you’re brave enough to seek it!”
OLD LORE
“The Dwarven Mithril mines were vast indeed, for Mithril was found 
only in rare veins, and the miners had to chase these glittering veins 
deep under the mountains. Mithril was first found in a great cave 
at the roots of the mountains, and this place is known as the Den 
of Forgotten Stars.”
Background
This tremendous open chamber was the heart of the Mithril 
mine. The chamber was excavated in the course of mining for 
Mithril, and then later filled with machinery to sift and wash 
the ore before it was carried back up the Wailing Stairs to the 
refineries and smelters in the city above. All that machinery 
was destroyed by the wrath of Durin’s Bane, and now the 
chamber is used as a holding pen for the slaves who toil in 
the mines. The Orcs dare not dig for Mithril, but there are 
still rich deposits of iron and gold to be found.
Malech’s forces hold the foot of the Wailing Stairs, and 
so control the supplies of food and fresh water. This is a mis-
erable place, where exhausted Dwarves and Men alike lie 
slumped in the dirt until the whips of the Orcs force them 
back to work — and yet, perversely, it is beautiful, too, for little 
fragments of Mithril in the walls reflect the light of torches 
like a brilliant sky of stars.
Escaping from the Den is quite easy — but to where? 
There are few ways back up to the city above save the Wailing 
Stair, and Goblins lurk in all the tunnels.
Locations
1. THE BLACK BARBICAN
This fortified guardhouse holds the foot of the Wailing Stairs. 
Unusually for Moria, it is entirely Orc- work, and looks like 
it — all jagged stone and spikes of iron. Twin heavy doors 
of bound birch- wood block the Stairs, while the Orc Guards 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 171 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
167
watch from the archway above, ready to hurl spears at any 
would- be escapees. The Orcs even keep a kennel of Wargs 
down here to hunt down escaped slaves.
Fodder for the slaves is stored here, but only a small 
amount; the Orcs replenish these supplies regularly. Even if 
the slaves were to rise up and escape the mines, they would 
quickly run out of food and be easy prey for Malech’s forces.
The treasury here contains some Mithril items hidden 
away by Shagram.
Shagram, the “Merry Fellow”
The Master of the Black Barbican is the happiest Orc in 
all of Moria, and sings merrily as he whips the slaves and 
Goblin- wretches to work in the mines every day. Shagram 
is monstrously sadistic, but he has always got a big grin on 
his toothy face, and positively bubbles with enthusiasm. 
He even pretends to be friendly and approachable to new 
slaves, asking them about their homelands and how they 
came to be in such a dire predicament — and then he takes 
out his whips and manacles.
Shagram is loyal to Malech, but he is one of the few 
Orcs in Moria who clearly sees that Malech is no more the 
chieftain he once was. Shagram’s current plan is to find a 
way to eliminate Malech’s bodyguard Uftak — once the 
brute has gone, Shagram believes he can convince the 
other Orc- captains in the city to support him as Malech’s 
successor. If he is in position before Gorgol arrives, he can 
present his new rank as a done deal and give obeisance 
to the Son of Bolg.
Shagram spends long hours in the Black Barbican, plot -
ting out various scenarios and scheming ways to elimi -
nate Uftak. He sometimes confides in slaves, using them 
as sounding boards as he thinks through his plans. After 
all, no slave is ever going to escape the mines, so there is 
no harm in letting a few of his secrets slip…
SHAGRAM
Merry, Sadistic
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
5
ENDURANCE
20
MIGHT
2
HATE
5
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Scimitar 3 (3/16),  
Whip 3 (2/14, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Fearless.  Shagram’s Might is considered 1 higher for 
the purpose of resisting the Intimidate Foe combat task.
Great Leap.  Spend 1 Hate to attack any Player- hero 
in any combat stance, including Rearward.
Yell of Triumph.  Spend 1 Hate to restore 1 Hate to all 
other Orcs in the fight.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 172 =====

CHAPTER 5
168
2. THE DEN OF FORGOTTEN STARS
This huge chamber is strewn with rubble and twisted metal, 
the remains of the old Dwarven refinery. There are lots of 
places to hide amid the debris, but Orcs with Wargs sniff out 
any shirkers and whip them back to work.
3. ORC-QUARTERS
Most of the prisoners working in the mines are Orcs from 
enemy clans, captured by Malech’s forces in battle. The Orcs 
enjoy a higher status than the other prisoners, and if an Orc 
wins the favour of the gaolers — through sycophancy or col -
lusion — they may be released from the prison and allowed 
to join Malech’s faction. However such promotions are rare, 
and most Orc- prisoners work until they perish — but they 
still torment the other prisoners. The baleful influence of 
the Enemy still fills their hearts.
4. DWARF-QUARTERS
A handful of Slave Dwarves work in the mine. They suffer the 
delusions that afflict many Dwarves who visit Moria, and believe 
themselves to be in the service of King Durin, delving for a 
fortune in Mithril. They keep to themselves in this chamber.
5. SLAVE-QUARTERS
If the Orcs have snatched any travellers from the Dimrill 
Pass or on one of Yagul’s raids (see page 112), 
or captured any intruders in Moria, then they 
end up here (assuming they are not given to 
the flames in the Temple of Udûn. Roll on 
the table on page 160  to determine the 
identity of any prisoners here; there are 
unlikely to be more than two or three at any 
time, if there are any at all.
6. INFIRMARY
Do not expect mercy here. Orcs have various remedies to 
quickly revive a prisoner who succumbs to exhaustion, but 
those who cannot get back to work quickly are butchered and 
served in the stewpot.
7. TO THE IRON-MINES
This path leads to the older portion of the Mines, where 
there is still some ore to be found. These mines are a laby -
rinth beyond imagining, and no- one knows their full extent.
THE DEN OF  
FORGOTTEN STARS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 173 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
169
8. TO THE GREATER VEIN 
AND THE GOBLIN-WAY
The vein of Mithril beneath Caradhras splits in two. The 
Dwarves pursued both veins, digging many exploratory tun -
nels and shafts to follow the lodes of ore, until they settled 
on chasing the more promising Greater Vein. These tunnels 
connect with the underground road called the Goblin Way. 
It is certainly possible to escape the mines by taking this path 
and then finding a tunnel that leads up to the Goblin Village, 
or continues on north towards far- off Gundabad — but this 
path goes under Caradhras, and is perilous beyond compare.
Old Scratch
A particular ancient and gnarled Goblin, so old no- one 
remembers his real name. Scratch haunts the Goblin Way 
and the mines, scavenging chips of Mithril and gathering 
them until he has enough to trade up at the Goblin Vil -
lage. He survives on cave- fish and the occasional stran -
gled miner.
Scratch’s lair, deep in the mines, is a wonder — over 
the years, he has salvaged fine furniture and art from the 
ruins above, and dragged such pieces down here to adorn 
his cave. This is a Goblin who eats his raw fish from sil -
ver plates, and disembowels those strangled miners with 
gold- plated knives.
THE GOBLIN WAY
The Goblins tried to besiege Moria many times. 
Over the long Ages, they wormed their way 
through the mountains, always digging, always 
seeking, looking for a way into the city above. On a 
few occasions, they broke through and raided the 
Dwarrow  delf, only to be turned back by doughty 
Dwarven warriors.
Now, the maze of tunnels — as complex and 
delicate as veins beneath the skin — extends 
through the mountains. Not even the Goblins 
know all the twists and turns of their creation, for 
it was dug over thousands of years by jealous, par -
anoid or crazed Goblins, many of whom left traps 
and deliberate blind corridors to hinder their rivals. 
Still, the tunnels of the Goblin Way connect to the 
upper Mines of Moria, and run from there north 
to Goblin Town and Gundabad.
Old Scratch can be employed as a guide, if bribed with 
food and Treasure. He is not trustworthy by any means, but 
a Goblin does not live as long as he has without knowing 
when to fight and when to help the nasty adventurers 
armed with sharp swords.
He is not aligned with any of the Orc- factions, but he 
has seen Durin’s Bane, and fears it. If pressed, he will run 
to the Udûn- orcs for shelter.
OCCUPATION:  Mithril Scavenger
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES:  Keen- eyed, Traitorous
9. TO THE LESSER VEIN  
AND THE FOUNDATIONS OF STONE
This mine- tunnel near the Lesser Vein slopes steeply down, 
chasing a glimmering Mithril- vein whose silver traceries are 
still visible in the wall. It ends abruptly at the top of a deeper 
shaft. The shattered remains of what might once have been 
a stone seal or carving lie scattered on the ground, covered 
with a layer of greasy soot.
This was where the Dwarves delved too deep. This was 
where the Balrog woke.
This is a corrupted place: Player- heroes who enter here 
gain 3 points of Shadow (Sorcery). Those who fail also feel a 
strange compulsion to climb down the shaft into the caverns 
below, drawing them towards the fires like moths to a flame…
The shaft leads down to the Foundations of Stone (see 
page 173).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 174 =====

CHAPTER 5
170
Schemes and Troubles
RELIEF FROM SLAVERY
Heroic Companies may doubtless wish to rescue these unfor-
tunates from the mines. There are three obstacles that must 
be overcome.
 ♦ RALLYING THE SLAVES:  The Slaves are in deep despair 
and have lost all hope of rescue. They are suspicious of 
any talk of escape, several of them were brought here by 
the treachery of Imri (see page 113) and so they dare 
not trust strangers. A successful test of ENHEARTEN  or 
showing some other proof of the Player- heroes’ worthi-
ness is needed to rally the prisoners.
 ♦ FINDING A WAY OUT:  The only known route out is up 
the Wailing Stairs — and if the Player- heroes intend to 
take that path, they must break through the Black Bar-
bican. Their options are to lay siege to the fortification, 
or wait for a moment when the gates are open and try 
rushing the guards. Alternatively, the Company could 
search for another way out through the mines — but 
many have sought and failed to find such a route.
 ♦ DEFEATING THE GUARDS:  The Orc Guards under 
Shagram are numerous and cruel, and they have been 
preparing for a slave uprising for years, so they are 
ready for a fight. Of course, they expect to be facing 
desperate, starving slaves and not armed adventurers, 
so a sudden attack that slays Shagram and his cronies 
could break the will of the Orcs.
REMAKING THE SEAL
Conceivably, if the Balrog was indeed ‘released from prison’ 
by the excavations of the Dwarves, then it could be impris -
oned once again if the Seal were restored. The fragments of 
the Seal are marked with Elvish letters of a truly ancient mode, 
the Tengwar of Rúmil, and few even among the Wise can 
read these signs. The Seal was made of stone, but the letters 
were inlaid with an enchanted metal unknown to the Dwarves 
(perhaps Ithildin might serve as an adequate replacement).
Repairing the Seal would require a Daunting Skill Endeav-
our, using CRAFT , LORE , or SONG . At least 1 Magical success 
with each of these Skills is required to complete the Endeav-
our. There is no time limit, but each Skill roll causes the 
Player- hero attempting it to gain 3 Shadow points (Sorcery).
If the Seal is repaired, then someone would have to lure 
Durin’s Bane back down into the Foundations of Stone, and 
would doubtless be trapped down there in the dark forever.
The Balrog’s Throne 
- hidden -
His enemy halted again, facing him, and the shadow about it reached out like two vast wings. It 
raised the whip, and the thongs whined and cracked. Fire came from its nostrils.
RUMOUR
“Ghâsh say the Orcs — fire! They admit nothing more.”
OLD LORE
“The lore of the Elder Days is preserved in few places in Middle-  
earth. Perhaps Lore master Elrond of Rivendell could speak of the 
destruction of Thangorodrim, when the Elves deemed Evil was ended 
forever. Elven songs still sing of Balrogs and other fell creatures of 
the Enemy — but all this has passed out of the mind and memory. 
No lore speaks of this stronghold of darkness.”
Background
These are the chambers that the Balrog has claimed as its 
own, deep in the mines. These are not natural caverns — 
they resemble an ancient temple or fortress of Morgoth, but 
if these ruins existed before the Balrog came, or if it forced 
the last Dwarves of Moria to carve this monument to its van -
ished master, none can say.
The darkness here is overwhelming. Here all lights fail 
— only magical light can pierce the shadow. Torches and 
candles continue to burn, and their flames can be seen, but 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 175 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
171
they shed no illumination. Those tres-
passing here must navigate by touch 
— and the rock walls are hot enough to 
sear flesh.
No- one has ever entered these cham -
bers and returned, save Thu the Firespeaker.
Locations
1. PATHS OF APPROACH
All these tunnels slope steeply downwards. The air grows thick 
with fumes, the darkness deepens as Player- heroes draw closer 
to the Balrog’s lair. Turning around and fleeing is not so easy, 
as the incline of the slope seems to suddenly increase the 
moment intruders think of leaving.
Going back up one of these paths requires a successful 
ATHLETICS  roll; failure increases the Player- hero’s Fatigue 
by 1 and prevents them from moving. The Player- hero can 
try again.
2. BURNING CAVERNS
Pools of molten lava bubble in these caverns. A sullen crust 
of semi- solid rock, like a scab over an infected wound, cov -
ers most of the lava flow. There are spikes of black basalt 
that a nimble Player- hero could jump between, like stepping 
stones. The Balrog, being a spirit of fire, can pass over the 
lava without fear. Others must make an ATHLETICS  roll to 
cross these caverns; those who fail suffer a grievous Endur -
ance loss from fire.
The light- swallowing effect of the temple beyond becomes 
noticeable here; these rooms are unnaturally dark despite the 
sullen ember- glow of the molten rock.
THE BALROG’S THRONE
1
2
 3
4
5
6
7
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 176 =====

CHAPTER 5
172
3. THE AUDIENCE CHAMBER
The well- shaft from the Udûn- temple (see page 161) opens 
into this cavern, which was once an underground lake. The 
walls bear traces of mineral deposits left when the heat of 
the Balrog’s presence turned the water to steam. The under-
ground stream that once flowed here has been blocked up, 
although the trickling of water can still be heard nearby.
The floor of the chamber is covered in ash, burnt bones 
and the scorched remnants of offerings hurled down the pit 
by the Orcs of Udûn. The Balrog has no interest in such sac-
rifices; searching through the debris turns up a Lesser Hoard 
worth of grave goods.
4. CHASM
A deep pit in the mountain. The river once plunged down 
into this chasm, down to the Foundations of Stone far below. 
The Balrog uses this path to travel to the unknown places 
deep below — and things from below might creep up this 
chasm too, now that the way is open.
5. TEMPLE TO DARKNESS
The Balrog’s lair. The darkness here is complete, as deep as it 
was in the timeless time before Elbereth kindled the first stars. 
No light can penetrate these halls; all lamps are quenched, 
all candles snuffed. Even magical light cannot endure here; 
perhaps the Phial of Galadriel could drive back the Shadow, 
but other powers falter here.
Player- heroes stumbling through the darkness might 
brush against nightmare carvings of monsters and tormented 
souls, of dead trees and mighty citadels — or they might plum-
met into an unseen pit, never to be seen again.
While nothing can be seen here, something can be heard 
— the echo of discordant music, distant yet terrible. It gnaws 
at all hope, all sanity. Those who enter the temple gain 4 
points of Shadow (Dread); those who fail are overcome with 
terror and must flee.
6. MITHRIL-VEINS
And here, beyond the reach of Man or Dwarf, are veins of 
Mithril of surpassing fruitfulness. Untapped, untouched, 
immeasurable, the bounty of the Mountain’s heart waits for 
one to claim it.
7. THE BALROG’S THRONE
Durin’s Bane sits on a throne of reddish- black stone, carved 
from the basalt roots of Caradhras. The heat of the Balrog’s 
presence has turned the room to flame; pools of lava bubble 
in the floor, belching poisonous fumes into the air. When 
not stalking through the corridors of Moria, Durin’s Bane 
sits here, waiting and listening for its Master’s voice, a call 
from Morgoth that will not be heard until the World’s end -
ing, until the Great Enemy returns at the end of days and the 
final battle is fought.
Those who sit on that awful throne have a terrible sensa-
tion of falling, plummeting swiftly through Middle- earth, fall-
ing out of Arda and plunging into the endless void beyond, 
coming ever closer but never quite reaching the wall of night 
that surrounds all creation.
Schemes and Troubles
Perils? You ask after peril here, of all places? There is nothing 
but peril here!
DEFEATING DURIN’S BANE
The Balrog is a foe beyond the power of almost anyone who 
still dwells in Middle- earth. So too, though, was Shelob, the 
last daughter of Ungoliant, and it was a humble gardener 
from the Shire who dealt her a grievous wound. The workings 
of Fate are strange indeed, and it is possible, if exceedingly 
unlikely, that the Player- heroes might battle the Balrog and 
win. The Last Ring of the Dwarves (see page 146) coupled 
with Durin’s Axe (see page 154) would be enough to raise 
a mortal hero to the status of legend.
Most likely, any victory over the Balrog is a temporary one. 
A hero might sacrifice themselves to allow the others to flee 
Moria, or to trap the Balrog in the depths. But this is your 
tale, your sub- creation — maybe Moria was freed from shadow 
long before the One Ring left Rivendell, and passed safely 
through welcoming halls. Or maybe some other foe steps in 
to take the Balrog’s role (it is worth noting that in some of 
Tolkien’s drafts, the foe encountered at Durin’s Bridge was 
a Great Troll, or Saruman, or a Ringwraith).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 177 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
173
Foundations of Stone 
- hidden -
“Deep is the abyss that is spanned by Durin’s Bridge, and none has measured it,’  
said Gimli.‘Yet it has a bottom, beyond light and knowledge,’ said Gandalf. 
‘Thither I came at last, to the uttermost foundations of stone.”
RUMOUR
None
OLD LORE
None
Background
Both Dwarves and Goblins have walked in the deep, dark 
places of the world, far from the sunlight — but neither of 
them knows all the secrets of the depths. Before the Dwarves 
built Khazad- dûm, before Durin woke and walked 
alone, other things were here. Perhaps only Tom 
Bombadil remembers them, for he knew the dark 
under the stars when it was fearless — before the 
Dark Lord came from Outside.
The Dwarves never reached these foun -
dations of stone, but things gnawed their way 
up from below after Moria was abandoned.
The abyss under the Bridge of Khazad- 
dûm leads down to this level, as do a hand-
ful of secret paths from the mines. 
Only a few living creatures in Moria 
know these paths: Old Scratch 
(see page 169 ), the priest 
Thu (see page 163), and 
Durin’s Bane.
Locations
1. GNAWED TUNNELS
The tunnels here were not dug or carved, they were gnawed, 
the tooth- marks are still visible on the rocks. The stone below 
the roots of the mountains is riddled with such tunnels, criss- 
crossing and spiralling endlessly, tracing the path of long-  
vanished creatures like worms in an apple. The tunnels vary 
in size; most are barely large enough for a Hobbit to stand 
upright, but others are alarmingly larger.
The tunnels are hot and uncomfortable, soundless and 
lightless, bereft of signs or landmarks; no one can hope to 
navigate them.
FOUNDATIONS 
OF STONE
1
1
2
2
3
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 178 =====

CHAPTER 5
174
2. THE LAKES BELOW
The waters of the Misty Mountains rush east and 
west, feeding the great Anduin and sullen, 
mercurial Greyflood — but they also pour 
down, filtering through the rock over long 
centuries to pool here in the uttermost 
depths. The lakes sometimes swell and 
rise, flooding the mines above — flood -
waters from heavy snowmelt many cen -
turies ago. When they fall back, the 
waters leave behind the remains of 
strange creatures — pale fish, boneless 
things like disembodied hands, writhing 
lumps of slime with half- formed eyes.
One such lake lies far, far below 
Durin’s Bridge.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 179 =====

THE MANSIONS OF THE DWARVES
175
3. THE ENDLESS STAIR
The Endless Stair was a secret path made for the kings of old, 
leading from the Tower of Durin atop the mountain to its low-
est levels. The stair is surely beyond the craft of Dwarves or Men, 
for it runs unbroken down its narrow shaft for many thousands 
of feet, the steps circling a pillar of unknown stone that glim-
mers with its own internal light. The walls of the stair, too, are 
carved with runes — a litany of prayer to Aulë the Smith who 
made the Dwarves — and who, perhaps, also made this stair.
Seven secret doors open onto the stair — one at the bottom, 
one at the top, and five more through the Deeps, the Dwarrow-
delf and the Mountain Galleries above them. Curiously, the 
doors appear to predate the corridors or chambers they con-
nect to — the stair was delved first, and the city built around it.
The rooms around the foot of the Endless Stair were 
destroyed long ago by the Balrog; from the fragments that 
remain, they were likely part of a temple complex, a place 
holy to the Dwarven kings.
Schemes and Troubles
NAMELESS THINGS
There are creatures living down here, slimy horrors unlike 
anything that lives under the light of the sun. A few have 
crawled up to trouble the surface world, drawn by the pres -
ence of the Balrog. The many- tentacled monster that the 
Fellowship of the Ring encountered upon entering Moria 
is one of them.
The Watcher in the Water
The monster lurks in deep waters, emerging on the surface 
to attack with its long, pale green tentacles.
THE WATCHER IN THE WATER
Secretive, Watchful
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
10
ENDURANCE
100
MIGHT
3
HATE
10
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
4
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Tentacle 3 (8/16, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Denizen of the Dark.  All attack rolls are 
Favoured  while in darkness.
Foul Reek.  Spend 1 Hate to cause all combatants 
engaged with the Watcher in the Water to lose (1d)  on 
all attack rolls for the round.
Hate Sunlight.  The Watcher in the Water loses 1 Hate 
at the start of each round it is exposed to the full light of 
the sun.
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts damage 
to the Watcher in the Water that would cause it to go to 
zero Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, 
if the Watcher is still alive, its Endurance score is set back 
at half its maximum rating.
Horrible Strength.  If the Watcher in the Water hits 
and causes a Piercing Blow, spend 1 Hate to make the 
target’s Protection roll Ill- favoured.
Long Arms.  Spend 1 Hate to attack any Player- hero, 
in any combat stance, including rearward (same as Great 
Leap).
Many Arms.  The Watcher in the Water makes one 
additional attack each round. Each time it receives a 
Wound, however, for the rest of the fight the Watcher in 
the Water can make one less attack.
They did not halt until they were out of bowshot from the walls. Dimrill Dale lay about them.  
The shadow of the Misty Mountains lay upon it, but eastwards there was a golden light on the land.  
It was but one hour after noon. The sun was shining; the clouds were white and high.
They looked back. Dark yawned the archway of the Gates under the mountain- shadow.  
Faint and far beneath the earth rolled the slow drum- beats: doom. A thin black smoke trailed out.  
Nothing else was to be seen; the dale all around was empty. Doom. Grief at last wholly overcame them,  
and they wept long: some standing and silent, some cast upon the ground.  
Doom, doom. The drum- beats faded.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 180 =====

176
APPENDIX
APPENDIX
“...that is another story, which can wait until after lunch.”
 
he present section contains information about excursions into Moria 
that are narrated in the main sources, and that happened before or 
after the default date for this supplement — the year 2965.
Balin’s Expedition
“At last Gandalf looked up. ‘It seems to be a record of the fortunes of Balin’s folk,’ he said.  
‘I guess that it began with their coming to Dimrill Dale nigh on thirty years ago…”
Now Balin son of Fundin was one of the companions of 
Thorin Oakenshield on the great Quest of Erebor; he was 
the Company’s look- out man, and of all the Dwarves was the 
closest to the Halfling Burglar who accompanied them. After 
the death of Smaug and the re- establishment of the Kingdom 
under the Mountain, Balin became one of King Dáin’s chief 
advisors, and for a time enjoyed great prosperity.
Some began to whisper that if one kingdom could be 
reclaimed, why not another? If the Shadow could be driven 
from Erebor, why not from the storied halls of Moria? For a 
time, this was but idle grumbling as Dwarves are prone to, but 
these whispers took root in the mind of Balin. Perhaps the 
old Dwarf was hungry for adventure once again, or maybe 
he felt that he — a cousin of the royal line — deserved a 
kingdom of his own, instead of serving in Dáin’s court. It is 
known that Balin travelled west at times, visiting Bilbo in the 
Shire — he must have strayed south at times, and made pil -
grimage to the Mirrormere.
Regardless of the nature of the desire that stirred him, 
Balin championed the cause of retaking Moria. For many 
years, King Dáin refused to give permission, but in the end 
the swell of support was too great, and against his better judge-
ment he allowed Balin and Company to depart.
Balin took with him Ori and Óin, and a great many 
Dwarves, as well as weapons and supplies for an extended 
campaign. Although rumours suggested that the Orcs had 
not yet returned to Moria in great numbers, Balin knew that 
there would certainly be dangers and hardship along the way.
The Company departed Erebor in the spring of 2989.
Playing the Expedition
If you wish to use Balin’s Expedition as a mere part of your 
campaign, then a Company wandering in Wilderland might 
hear word of a great host of Dwarves marching south to the 
Dimrill Dale. After his experiences with Bilbo and Gandalf, 
Balin would doubtless welcome aid from doughty warriors, 
heroes, burglars — and even a Wizard, if he could find one. 
The Player- heroes might be employed as scouts exploring 
Moria, or as messengers bringing word back to Erebor. In 
this scenario, Balin meets his canonical fate in 2994 — the 
Dwarven colony is cut off by advancing Orcs, and Balin per -
ishes at Mirrormere. The Player- heroes might never know 
what became of their erstwhile allies.
Another option is to play through the Expedition, from 
glorious beginning to its last days. Your Player- heroes should 
mostly be Dwarves, although a Man of Dale or Lake- town or 
maybe a Hobbit or two is perfectly acceptable. The Player-  
heroes are Balin’s inner circle of advisors and champions; the 
Lore master plays the old Dwarf, but Balin heeds the counsel 
of his friends and it is up to the Player-  heroes to make the 
key decisions.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 181 =====

177
APPENDIX
Is the Expedition doomed? Almost certainly. As long as 
the Balrog walks the Halls of Durin, retaking the city is impos-
sible. However, the actions and choices of the Company may 
result in the Expedition lasting longer than the canonical five 
years, or escaping back to Erebor with treasure and trophies.
Note that Balin returns to Moria in the year 2989 — 
almost 25 years later than the default date for a The 
One Ring campaign. All the information contained in 
this volume refers to the situation in 2965.
2989 — THE JOURNEY SOUTH
The Expedition was too large to travel the Elf- path (and the 
Elf- king would not have welcomed so many Dwarves tramp -
ing through his lands), so Balin led his followers west from 
Erebor, travelling the perilous lands between the northern 
edge of Mirkwood and the Grey Mountains. They followed 
the Great River south through the land of the Beornings. 
There, they halted for many weeks while their leaders nego -
tiated over the price of the crossing. This delay was put to 
good use; not only did the Dwarves stock their supplies with 
Beorning honey- cakes and mead, but they also sent scouting 
parties ranging ahead to Dimrill Dale.
These scouts returned with good tidings — the East- gate 
was open and undefended, and there were few signs of Orcs 
in the vicinity of the First Hall. (What the scouts did not know 
was that the Orcs of Moria had recently fought a bloody civil 
war, and their numbers were much reduced).
It was well into the grey days of autumn that the Expedi -
tion finally crossed the Anduin and continued south again. 
They settled in the Dimrill Dale, setting up a base camp amid 
the ruins, and wintered there.
SCHEMES AND TROUBLES
 ♦ CROSSING THE GREY MOUNTAINS:  Even though the 
mountains have been scourged of Goblins, there are 
still perils here — and a slow- moving procession of 
Dwarves is a tempting target for Dragons and outlaws.
 ♦ THE QUEST OF THE BEORNINGS:  What price might 
the Beornings charge for fording the River? Before 
the Council of Elrond, Glóin grumbles that their tolls 
are high, and that they are not fond of Dwarves — but 
if there is one thing the Dwarves of Erebor have, it is 
gold. Might the Beornings have demanded some other 
payment from the Dwarves than treasure?
 ♦ SCOUTING MORIA:  Who dares take the first step 
across the threshold of the East- gate?
 ♦ THE HUNT FOR THRÁIN’S RING:  Why would Dáin 
finally relent and permit Balin to go? As Glóin notes, 
“it was partly in hope to find that ring that Balin went away” 
— did Balin seek that ring for himself, or did Dáin ask 
for it as the price of his blessing? Certainly, recovering 
one of the lost Dwarf- rings would have assured Dáin’s 
place in the pantheon of great Dwarf- kings. While 
Balin hoped the ring might be found in Moria, he 
knew from Gandalf’s tales that Thráin was captured 
and taken to Dol Guldur; might he have sent scouts 
east to the ruins of the Hill of Sorcery?
2990–2991 — INTO THE DWARROWDELF
At first, the Dwarves met with great success. Balin divided 
his host into three Companies. One stayed outside in the 
camp in Dimrill Dale, guarding their stocks and gathering 
food and fuel. Another Company set themselves to restor -
ing the safe portions of Moria, repairing the damage done 
by a thousand years of neglect and Orc- mischief. The third 
group, consisting of the most adventurous Dwarves, explored 
deeper into the city.
These explorers met with peril as they delved deeper. 
They encountered Orcs and other horrors, and found few 
of the treasures they had hoped to discover in the upper halls. 
Still, they secured much of the Dwarrowdelf, travelling as far 
as the Twenty- first Hall. Balin himself refused to enter Moria, 
saying he would not set foot in the halls of his ancestors until 
they were wholly cleansed of Orc- filth.
Meanwhile, the presence of the camp in Dimrill Dale 
attracted other foes. Goblins troubled the Dwarves, and while 
their fortified position was too strong to be overcome, Wargs 
prowled the dale by night.
NEW FELLOWSHIP UNDERTAKING: 
FORTIFY THE ANCIENT HALLS
“We have taken the twenty- first hall of North end 
to dwell in.”
If a Company enters Moria to reclaim it, then they 
must devote many long hours of toil to restore its 
ruined halls. This undertaking may only be per -
formed in or near Moria, and only at a Landmark 
that has been cleansed of Orcs and other foes. 
Choose this undertaking to increase the 
Hunt Threshold at the chosen Landmark by 
4 (thus making it much less likely that foes 
or misfortunes will trouble the Company at 
that Landmark in future). If the Landmark 
is retaken by the Enemy, this bonus is lost.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 182 =====

178
APPENDIX
SCHEMES AND TROUBLES
 ♦ RECLAIMING KHAZAD- DÛM:  Player- heroes are among 
those sent to explore the deeper reaches of the 
Dwarrowdelf.
 ♦ GOBLINS LURK IN THE MOUNTAIN HEIGHTS:  Driv-
ing the Orc- hosts from their fastnesses relieves the 
danger to the base camp.
 ♦ THERE ARE FEW TREES LEFT IN DIMRILL DALE:  Did 
the hungry axes of the Dwarves turn to the western 
eaves of Lothlórien?
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 183 =====

179
APPENDIX
2992 — THE JAWS CLOSE
News reached the Goblins of Mount Gundabad that there 
were Dwarves at the gate of Moria once more — and that one 
of the slayers of Bolg was among them! The Orcs gathered 
their forces and marched south through hidden tunnels. They 
attacked under cover of darkness, overwhelming the camp at 
Dimrill Dale. Many perished; the survivors, including Balin, 
retreated into Moria.
The rest of the year was a bloody, grinding fight for con-
trol of the Second Hall and Durin’s Bridge. The Dwarves 
feared being cut off from fresh supplies of food and water; 
the Orcs feared the Dwarves’ axes and swords, and preferred 
to defeat their enemies with hunger and despair instead of 
direct assault.
On Durin’s Day, to shore up the morale of his followers, 
Balin finally established a throne in the secured Twenty- first 
Hall, and was acclaimed Lord of Moria.
SCHEMES AND TROUBLES
 ♦ THE WEST- GATE CLOSES:  The evacuation of the Dim-
rill Camp was vital to the survival of the colony. If the 
Dwarves’ food supply was destroyed by the Orcs, then 
they would have perished much sooner.
 ♦ THE DWARVES ARE UPON YOU!  The defence of the 
Dwarf- hold called for keen blades and heroic deeds. 
How did so few Dwarves hold out against so many Orcs?
2993 — THE FALL OF BALIN
Balin began planning for a counter- attack. Messengers were 
sent to the Beornings, asking for their help in battling the 
Orcs, but the messengers were ambushed and slain before they 
reached the Old Ford. Scouts went west in search of the West- 
gate, in the hope that help might be fetched from the Blue 
Mountains, but they found the way blocked by an impass -
able lake inhabited by a strange monster. It was only in the 
depths of Moria that the Dwarves found hope — they 
discovered Mithril and other treasures in a 
strangely burnt section of the city.
The shadow lay heavily on Balin, 
and he feared that he had led 
his people to their doom. 
As the year wore on, and 
no word came from the 
Beornings, Balin decided 
to risk travelling to the 
Mirrormere, seeking the 
wisdom of the ancestors. An 
Orc slew him — and more Orcs 
came down the Dimrill Stair. These 
reinforcements came from the north, for 
the Orcs saw a chance to take revenge for their defeat at the 
Battle of Five Armies. They were inspired, too, by the growing 
Shadow in the East. As Sauron’s power grew, so too did the 
war- lust of the Orcs.
SCHEMES AND TROUBLES
 ♦ A GLEAM OF HOPE:  Balin sought aid from east and 
west, from the Beornings and the folk of the Ered 
Luin. Neither attempt succeeded — but what if the 
Player- heroes were able to break through the Orc- lines, 
or made it past the Watcher in the Water? What might 
have happened if allies came to the aid of the colony?
 ♦ THE STEWARDS OF MORIA:  Who led the Dwarves after 
the fall of Balin?
2994 — THEY ARE COMING…
With the death of Balin, the Orcs were able to capture the 
Second Hall, cutting the Dwarves off from sunlight and the 
outside world. Doom was at hand, and there would be no 
escape. Drums sounded in the deep. They are coming…
A TALE OF YEARS OF BALIN’S REIGN
2989:  Balin leaves Erebor
2990:  Balin’s Expedition drives the Orcs away from 
the East- gate and the Guardpost. They press onto 
the Dwarrowdelf, and establish themselves in the 
Twenty- first Hall.
2991:  The expedition goes in search of fabled trea -
sures of Moria.
2992:  Orc counter- attacks in Dimrill Dale threaten 
to cut the colony off from the East-  gate and its 
supply routes. Óin is sent west to seek out the 
Hollin- gate and find alternate sources of food for 
the Dwarves. Balin is crowned Lord of Moria.
2994:  Balin’s expedition ends in failure. The 
West- gate is barred by the Watcher in the Water; 
Orcs ambush Balin at Mirrormere and retake the 
East- gate.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 184 =====

180
APPENDIX
I Too Once Passed 
the Dimrill Gate
“I do not wish to enter Moria a second time.”
Both Gandalf the Grey and Aragorn entered Moria long before 
the events narrated in The Lord of the Rings . Neither of their 
journeys happened around 2965, but a game might include 
references to Gandalf’s expedition, and a long- running cam-
paign might incorporate Aragorn’s abortive journey.
2849 - The Search For Thráin
Gandalf goes looking for Thráin II, father of Thorin Oaken-
shield, sometime after 2841. Thráin, of course, was caught 
by servants of Sauron and imprisoned in Dol Guldur. They 
stole the last of the Seven from him, and the loss of the Ring 
broke his mind. Alas, Gandalf arrived too late to save the 
Dwarf- king, but did retrieve the vital map and key to Erebor. 
But all that is the prologue to another story.
Before braving the dungeons of the Necromancer, Gan -
dalf entered Moria in search of Thráin. This was likely in 
2848 or 2849, as the Wizard’s quest grew more desperate. 
We know that Gandalf entered from the east (consistent with 
him searching the Vales of Anduin) and passed all the way 
through Moria, leaving via the Doors of Durin.
THE STATE OF MORIA
2849 is some fifty years after the bloody Battle of Nanduhirion, 
when the power of the Orcs of Moria was broken for the first 
time. At this time the Orcs of the Misty Mountains were at war 
with Rohan, so their numbers in the city were further depleted. 
But the Lord of Moria in this era was Bolg, son of Azog. The 
Orc warlord craved revenge for the murder of his father, and 
nursed bitter hatred against the line of Durin. There was every 
chance that Thráin languished in the dungeons of Bolg.
THE QUEST
Gandalf likely proceeded straight from the Second Hall 
of Old Moria into the Dwarrowdelf. He probably did not 
descend any further than the Third Deep, and we know that 
he did not visit the Chamber of Mazarbul. Bolg, being more 
arrogant than any of the current Orcs, took the King’s Hall 
(page 100) as his throne room, and employed the Armou -
ries of the Third Deep (page 151) as a prison.
Now, Gandalf travelled all the way through Moria to the 
West- gate, instead of going back the way he came. It is unlikely 
that he thought he could search all the labyrinthine caverns 
and mines; did Thráin leave some clue behind suggesting his 
destination? It’s known that the Last of the Seven had begun 
to prey on Thráin’s mind, so he might have gone seeking 
ring- lore amid the ruins of West Moria. Alternatively, perhaps 
Gandalf fled west because the east was blocked — by, say, a 
host of vengeful Orcs!
THE COMPANIONS
While the Grey Pilgrim often wandered alone, it’s likely that 
Gandalf was not so foolish as to enter Moria without doughty 
companions. In The Hobbit, he laments that “mighty Warriors 
and Heroes” are not to be found in time for the Quest of Ere-
bor, but he might have brought some with him on the quest 
for Thráin — a Ranger, maybe, or a Rider of Rohan with a 
grudge against the Orcs. It’s also Gandalf who suggests that 
bringing a burglar would be an excellent idea, so he might 
have visited the Shire to fetch, say, some adventurous daugh-
ter of Bullroarer Took.
Dwarves, too, might have accompanied Gandalf. As Dáin 
was not yet King there was no prohibition on entering Moria, 
although given the fate of Thrór, only the most foolhardy dared 
even contemplate an expedition into the fabled halls. Most 
Dwarves in that era were still dreaming of a return to Erebor, 
for the loss of the Kingdom under the Mountain was a fresh and 
stinging wound, and fighting a solitary Dragon atop a definitely- 
real pile of treasure seemed a more reasonable quest than fac-
ing unknown foes for uncertain reward. Still, any true- hearted 
Dwarf would have eagerly gone looking for Thráin, son of Thrór.
What became of these companions? Certainly, Gandalf 
was much more sanguine about the Fellowship’s chances of 
passing through Moria alive than Aragorn, so it may be sur -
mised that some or all of them survived. Of course, the quest 
for Thrór was some 116 years ago, beyond the lifespan of Man 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 185 =====

181
APPENDIX
or Hobbit. Maybe there is some elderly Dwarf in the Blue 
Mountains who recalls his long- ago adventure with the Wizard, 
or there’s a diary in a Tookborough attic with hand-  drawn 
maps of Moria. (Another possibility — the treasure- hunter 
Amelia Kern of Tharbad (Ruins of the Lost Realm, page 14) is 
too young to have participated in the search for Thráin, but 
whoever mentored her in treasure- hunting could have done 
so, and passed down secrets to her.)
2980 - Aragorn’s Journey
Aragorn too entered Moria via the East- gate, but he reveals no 
knowledge of West Moria or the Doors of Durin, suggesting he 
left the way he came in. Unlike the Search for Thráin, which 
must have happened between 2841 and 2850, Aragorn’s jour-
ney in Moria could have happened any time between when 
he first set forth from the safety of Rivendell (2952) and the 
Great Years (3018/3019).
One possibility is that he entered Moria as part of his 
search for Gollum between 3001 and 3017. Certainly, it 
is plausible that he might have sought Gollum near the 
creature’s old haunts under the Misty Mountains. However, 
Aragorn’s words in The Fellowship of the Ring ( “if you pass 
the doors of Moria, beware!” ) hint at a darker, more tragic tale.
In the year 2980 of the Third Age, Aragorn returned 
from his errantry in the Southlands. For thirty years, he had 
served in the armies of Rohan and Gondor, disguised as the 
warrior Thorongil. He had excelled in the service of both 
King and Steward, and his star had risen to such heights 
in Gondor that the Steward’s son Denethor grew jealous of 
Thorongil’s influence over Ecthelion. As Thorongil, Aragorn 
led the assault upon the Havens of Umbar, and saved Gondor 
from the predations of the Corsairs.
Aragorn returned from his errantry a man full- grown, 
the mantle of his destiny as Isildur’s Heir heavy upon him. 
He went to Lórien to rest, and there he met again the lady 
Arwen Evenstar, and upon the green grass of Cerin Amroth 
they plighted their troth.
Afterwards, Aragorn returned to Rivendell — but what 
road did he take? The safest way to cross the Mountains was 
via the High Pass, but the shorter route from Lórien leads over 
the Redhorn Pass. He must have known, too, that Arwen’s 
mother Celebrían was wounded on that pass, and thoughts of 
Arwen passing into the West might have weighed on his mind.
Might Aragorn, consumed by a dark mood, have tried his 
strength against the dark of Moria?
THE STATE OF MORIA
Moria, in the years before Balin’s Expedition, was much as 
described in this supplement. The chief difference is that 
the number and strength of Mordor- orcs has grown as they 
receive reinforcements from Dol Guldur.
THE QUEST
It’s unlikely that so great a tracker as Aragorn would have 
become lost in Moria; nor is it likely that a hardened warrior 
such as he would have referred to battling with Orcs by saying 
“the memory is very evil”. We know, too, that Aragorn failed 
to reach the West- gate.
What did he encounter on the way that forced him to 
retreat? He would have warned Gandalf of Orcs if he had 
encountered any of the Orcish bands on his journeys, so it 
seems more likely he met some unexpected foe that crawled 
out of the depths.
RECALLING THE SEARCH FOR THRÁIN
If the Player-  heroes find some record or diary 
recounting the Search for Thráin, or question one 
of those who entered Moria on that quest, they 
may learn of:
 ♦ The Vault of Uruktharbun ( page 106 )
 ♦ The Armouries of the Third Deep ( page 151 )
 ♦ The Ledge of Woe ( page 158 )
 ♦ The Imperishable Hall ( page 138 )
 ♦ The Den of Forgotten Stars ( page 166 )
Furthermore, Gandalf wondered about the fate of 
the last king of Moria, Náin I. He correctly guessed 
that Náin’s followers would have buried their king 
with all possible honours — a hint towards the exis -
tence of The Last Redoubt (see page 92 ).
EARLIER ERRANTRIES
While the 2980-date is both thematically and geo -
graphically convenient, the Lore master can move 
Aragorn’s journey to fit their campaign. Aragorn 
might have entered during his early adventures 
between 2952 and 2957 (perhaps in the company 
of the sons of Elrond), or have visited Moria during 
his service to King Thengel of Rohan. Little mem -
ory of Moria is preserved among the Rohirrim, 
save as a tale of terror from ancient days, but Orcs 
from the Black Pit have often troubled the north -
ern border of Rohan.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 186 =====

182
APPENDIX
New Nameless Thing — 
the Wailing Horror
“Pippin sat miserably by the door in the pitch black; but 
he kept on turning around, fearing that some unknown 
thing would crawl up out of the well.”
This thing crawled up out of the depths, and now dwells near 
the Second Hall — but at times it creeps out the East- gate 
and lopes down to trouble the farmsteads along the Anduin 
Vales. The stout Men of that region have learned to dread 
the wailing wind. The monster lays waste to the houses and 
halls it attacks, and devours the bodies of its victims, but then 
— strangely and horribly — it collects trophies and tokens to 
carry back to Moria. It takes blankets, utensils, mismatched 
pieces of clothing, even children’s toys, almost as if it seeks 
to convince itself that it might one day become human.
The Wailing Horror is as tall as a Troll, but gaunt and 
pale, clad only in thin greying hair. Its hide is faintly lumi -
nous in the dark. Its face is singularly hideous, for the eyes 
have atrophied while the mouth is hugely distended, bris -
tling with altogether too many teeth. Its keening howl is 
like the wind whistling through leafless treetops.
THE WAILING HORROR
Hideous, Slender
ATTRIBUTE LEVEL
9
ENDURANCE
90
MIGHT
2
HATE
9
PARRY
—
ARMOUR
3
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES:  Bite 3 (7/14, Pierce),  
Claw 3 (7/16, Seize)
FELL ABILITIES:  Deadly Wound.  Wounded targets make 
an Ill- favoured Feat die roll to determine the severity of 
their Injury.
Hate Sunlight.  The Wailing Horror loses 1 Hate at the 
start of each round it is exposed to the full light of the sun.
Hideous Toughness.  When an attack inflicts damage 
to the Wailing Horror that would cause it to go to zero 
Endurance, it causes a Piercing Blow instead. Then, if 
the Wailing Horror is still alive, its Endurance score is set 
back at half its maximum rating.
Keening Wail.  Spend 1 Hate to make all Player-  
heroes who can hear the creature gain 2 Shadow points 
(Dread). Those who fail their Shadow test are daunted 
and cannot spend Hope for the rest of the fight.
Snake- like Speed.  When targeted by an attack, 
spend 1 Hate to make the attack roll Ill- favoured.
THE COMPANIONS
Aragorn was accompanied on his early adventures by com -
panions from Rivendell — grim- faced older Rangers, fellow 
Dúnedain, and the Elf- lords Elladan and Elrohir. It’s unlikely 
that a young Aragorn would have foolishly strayed into peril, 
so he must have had good cause to enter Moria — perhaps 
to rescue someone in need.
During his time as Thorongil, Aragorn was well- loved by 
the people of Gondor and Rohan, and doubtless had many 
comrades- in- arms who might have travelled with him. It was 
in this era, too, that the Steward Ecthelion called on “all 
men of worth from near and far” to enter the service of Gon-
dor against the might of Mordor, so those comrades- at- arms 
might include Rangers, Dalish knights, or even Dwarven or 
Elven adventurers.
In either period, it’s possible that Aragorn/Thorongil 
might have joined with other explorers bound for Moria, who 
remained oblivious to their companion’s true nature until 
the very end…
A PRISONER OF THE GOBLINS
“The prisoners are NOT to be searched or 
plundered: those are my orders.”
Of course, it might be that Aragorn himself was a 
prisoner of the Goblins. His early adventures are 
unchronicled; it might be that he was waylaid in the 
Dimrill Dale on one of his journeys to Lothlórien, and 
he passed the East- gate in Goblin- chains. In this sce-
nario, it’s up to the Player- heroes to rescue young 
Aragorn before his identity is discovered. Most 
Moria- goblins have no idea what the Kingdom of 
Arnor was or what a Ranger might be (bloody Tark 
nonsense, they’d call it) — but a cunning emissary 
from Mordor would recognise the words Rivendell, 
Dúnedain, Elrond — and Isildur’s Heir…
A captured Aragorn would be imprisoned on 
the Ledge of Woe ( page 158 ) before being sent 
down to either the Den of Forgotten Stars ( page 
166) to toil in the mines, or to the Hall of Judge -
ment ( page 103 ) to fight for the amusement of 
the Orcs. If the Mordor- orcs learn of this prisoner, 
they would doubtless launch a raid (perhaps with 
the aid of the Invisible Goblins  of Goblin Village, 
page 157 ) to capture him for themselves.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 187 =====

183
APPENDIX
On Mithril
‘Mithril! All folk desired it. It could be beaten like copper, and polished like glass; and the 
Dwarves could make of it a metal, light and yet harder than tempered steel. Its beauty was 
like to that of common silver, but the beauty of Mithril did not tarnish or grow dim.
Through their artistry, the Elven- smiths of Eregion and the 
Dwarves found that Mithril could be transformed into other 
substances that had singular properties of their own. The 
secrets of this alchemy have not been entirely lost, even if 
they are now passed down only as theory, for no new Mithril 
has been mined by Elf or Dwarf in a thousand years.
Species of Mithril
In Moria, Mithril can be encountered in its different forms.
NATIVE MITHRIL
This is the ‘raw’ form of the metal — Mithril is found in 
nuggets of pure metal, not mixed with other substances like 
iron ore. It must still be washed and sorted to gather all the 
flecks and grains — even a speck of Mithril has value. The 
Dwarves used nitric acid to dissolve other substances, leaving 
only the precious metal.
Native Mithril can be shaped, beaten and polished, but in 
this form it is comparatively soft, being no harder than copper.
TRUE MITHRIL
The Dwarves learned a way to process native Mithril into ‘true’ 
Mithril, preserving the metal’s beauty while making it much 
stronger. The art of this metalcraft is not entirely lost — the 
Dwarves still remember how to do it, but they lack access to 
a supply of native Mithril. The technique was also preserved 
— or rediscovered — in the forges of Mordor, and now Sau -
ron’s smiths take the native Mithril smuggled out of Moria 
and make it anew into true Mithril (or worse, Sullied Mithril).
While the smelters and forges needed to make true 
Mithril still exist in Moria, none of the Orcs know the secret 
techniques required.
The other, rarer alloys of Mithril begin with True Mithril.
ITHILDIN
It reflects only starlight and moonlight, and slumbers until 
touched by one who speaks words long forgotten in Middle- 
earth (a Scholar, or any other Player- hero with at least four 
ranks in LORE ). Ithildin can be made into an ink and painted 
with a pen or brush, and used to make secret moon- letters that 
are visible only in moonlight. Dwarven Kings and Elven Lords 
alike write letters in Ithildin, so that the messages go unseen.
MITHRIL- STEEL
Mithril is so expensive that it was almost unheard- of to make 
weapons or armour from pure Moria- silver. Instead, the 
Dwarves alloyed steel and Mithril. The Mithril does not mix 
evenly with the molten steel, but forms a network of hair- thin 
veins through the metal, as fine and beautiful as the trembling 
veins in a tree- leaf or the foam on a breaking wave. The pro-
cess makes the steel much stronger than before. Mithril- steel 
looks identical to normal steel except under the light of the 
full moon, when the fine veins can be seen.
ERCELEB
Its cousin Ithildin reflects starlight and moonlight; Erceleb 
drinks in the silvery light as though thirsty. Erceleb is a dull 
grey in colour by daylight or torchlight, but appears pitch 
black in moonlight or starlight. The Dwarves used Erceleb 
deep underground to mark their hidden doors, for it glows 
when awoken, giving up its swallowed starlight with a bril -
liant glow. Erceleb can also be used to capture memories 
along with the starlight or moonlight; if words are spoken 
to an object made of Erceleb in intense moonlight, then 
those words are repeated by the object when the metal is 
later awakened.
THILEVRIL
Thilevril was a form of Mithril drawn into exceedingly thin 
wires, so thin they were almost invisible unless the light caught 
them just right, yet still immensely strong and sharp. It was 
used for making musical instruments, especially harps, for 
strings or reeds of Thilevril could reach notes beyond the 
range of other instruments. Thilevril was also, rarely, used 
to make bow- strings or nets, or as tripwires. Orcs have been 
known to dismantle Thilevril-  harps and use the strings to 
make whips of astounding cruelty.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 188 =====

184
APPENDIX
SULLIED MITHRIL
This abomination is a new devilry out of Mordor, made 
from Mithril ore sent as tribute from Moria. Sullied Mithril 
becomes hotter when a word of command is spoken, allow -
ing a weapon forged from this alloy to burn hotter than a 
firebrand, or even burst into flames.
 “Old fool!’ he said. ‘Old fool! This is my hour. Do you not know 
Death when you see it? Die now and curse in vain!’ And with that 
he lifted high his sword and flames ran down the blade.”
Mithril Enchanted Rewards
Moria is vast and partly unexplored. While very rare, famous 
weapons and armour forged from Mithril can still be found 
in Khazad- dûm, but also elsewhere — for example, the helms 
of the Guards of the Citadel of Minas Tirith are wrought of 
Mithril, heirlooms from the glory of old days.
The Lore master may introduce the following new 
enchanted rewards as part of treasure hoards found in Moria, 
or even outside of it.
MITHRIL HELM
 ♦ CRAFTSMANSHIP:  Any
 ♦ ITEM:  Helm
A helm made of Mithril has a Load rating of 0.
MITHRIL SHIELD
 ♦ CRAFTSMANSHIP:  Any
 ♦ ITEM:  Shield
A buckler made of Mithril has a Load rating of 0 and can 
be used together with a 2-handed weapon. A shield and a 
great shield made of Mithril have a Load rating of 0 and 2, 
respectively.
MITHRIL WEAPON
 ♦ CRAFTSMANSHIP:  Any
 ♦ ITEM:  Close combat weapon
This quality lowers the Load rating of a weapon by 1, or 
by your corresponding Combat Proficiency rating, which -
ever is higher (to a minimum of 0 Load). Additionally, a 
1-handed weapon made of Mithril can be used to make 
Brawling attacks.
THE BURDEN OF MITHRIL
Mithril is astoundingly light, much more so than gold 
or iron. Even unforged ‘native’ Mithril is exceedingly 
valuable, being worth five times its Load.
A Player- hero carrying a Treasure made 
mostly of Mithril (or one of its related 
alloys) adds only 1 point to their Load score 
for every 10 Treasure points, not counting 
the workmanship or any other factors.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 189 =====

185
APPENDIX
Moria  
Magical Treasure  
Index
There hammer on the anvil smote, 
There chisel clove, and graver wrote; 
There forged was blade, and bound was hilt; 
The delver mined, the mason built. 
There beryl, pearl, and opal pale, 
And metal wrought like fishes’ mail, 
Buckler and corslet, axe and sword, 
And shining spears were laid in hoard.
The treasure items presented in the following section are not 
connected to any particular Landmark in Moria, and can be 
found in any Hoard.
MARVELLOUS ARTEFACTS
GEM OF THE STAG:  A disc of green glass, engraved with the 
image of a stag standing on a hilltop. The gem conveys a 
Blessing of HUNTING . Footprints seen through the disc glow 
faintly. The gem was made as a gift for the Elves of Eregion, 
and is especially potent in lands that remember them.
SILVER DREAM OF THE SMITH:  This silver necklace is of 
such surpassing craftsmanship and delicacy that it inspires a 
Blessing of CRAFT  in those who study it. Often, they share the 
dreams or memories of great smiths who lived in ages past.
BRAZEN HEAD:  The cast head of a Dwarven scholar, with vocal 
cords of Mithril and eyes of polished quartz. Under moon -
light, it whispers secrets — a Blessing of LORE . According 
to the tales, this was forged by the mad Dwarf- scholar Dero, 
who descended into unknown tunnels beneath the world and 
returned with strange tales and secrets.
SCABBARD OF THUNDER:  An ornate sheath for a sword, 
made of polished black leather and brass, decorated with 
images of storm- clouds and lightning bolts. When a weapon 
is drawn from this scabbard, thunder rolls — a Blessing of 
AWE. The scabbard was made for a King of the North- men in 
the Second Age of the world.
RING OF RIDDLES:  A ring of gold, set with a large red stone. 
Those who speak with the wearer of the ring feel as though 
they are relaxing by a fireside with merry company, no matter 
the circumstances. This is a Blessing of RIDDLE .
WONDROUS ITEMS
WAR- HORN OF THE UNDERWORLD:  Made from a Dragon’s 
horn, bound in steel, and marked with runes of power, this 
horn has not been sounded since the elder days. It carries a 
Blessing of BATTLE  and ENHEARTEN , but also a curse — if 
blown, whoever hastens to aid the bearer is doomed. Their 
Protection rolls in battle are Ill- favoured.
STAFF OF THE ROADWARDEN:  Described in more detail on 
page 134, but this black staff bound in mithril grants a Bless-
ing of EXPLORE  and SCAN  in addition to any other properties.
HARP OF THE CASCADES:  This harp is associated with the 
Dimrill Stair, and with a maiden who dwelt there long ago. 
It is said she was in love with a shepherd who perished in the 
winter snows, and she took up her harp and sang a lament 
for him. She played until her fingers bled, so long that her 
heart froze and she too perished. Despite this sad tale, the 
harp bears no curse, and has Blessings of SONG  and INSIGHT .
IRON- SHOD BOOTS:  These boots were made for Dwarven 
messengers in the days when there were many Dwarven king-
doms. They are heavy boots with soles of iron, but despite 
that they are marvellously light and comfortable. They grant 
a Blessing of ATHLETICS  and TRAVEL .
CIRCLET OF QUEEN EDRYS:  A circlet of Mithril studded with 
pearls, this crown grants Blessings of AWARENESS  and COUR -
TESY . The circlet is marked with runes of law and judgement.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 190 =====

186
APPENDIX
Dwarves of Nogrod 
and Belegost
“After the end of the First Age the power and wealth of Khazad- dûm was much increased,  
for it was enriched by many people and much lore and craft when the ancient cities of Nogrod 
and Belegost in the Blue Mountains were ruined in the breaking of Thangorodrim.”
There were seven kings of the Dwarves, and they founded 
seven Houses. Durin was first and eldest, and his mansion of 
Khazad- dûm was the greatest. But there were mighty kings, 
too, in the cities of Belegost and Nogrod in the Blue Moun -
tains. In ancient days, the Elven realm of Beleriand lay west 
of the mountains, and the Dwarves learned much from the 
Elves there — though they were not always friends — and 
grew masterful in craft, especially jewel- smithing. In return, 
the Elves learned much from them about smithcraft, an art 
the Dwarves were never outmatched at, even by the Noldor.
Then, alas, the world was shattered. The sea drowned 
Beleriand, and upheavals of the earth brought ruin to the 
twin cities. Some of the folk of Belegost and Nogrod remained 
in the Blue Mountains, where their descendants still dwell, 
but many more fled to the safety of Moria. They dwelt there, 
but kept a little apart from the dwarves of Durin’s line. The 
Dwarves of Belegost and Nogrod had their own customs, their 
own noble lines — and though their treasure hoards were 
gone and they were forced to labour as common smiths, they 
still held themselves the equal of any Longbeard princeling.
Characteristics
Today, many thousands of years since the days of Beleriand, 
few outsiders can tell the difference between a Dwarf of 
Durin’s Folk and those of Belegost and Nogrod. There has 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 191 =====

187
APPENDIX
been so much intermarriage between the clans that once-  
distinctive traits like fiery- red beards or especially broad shoul-
ders are no longer unique to one clan or another. Only schol-
ars who delve into Dwarven genealogies can say which folk a 
Dwarf belongs to — but these divisions remain vitally import -
ant to the Dwarves.
And those who were not of Durin’s Folk said also: Khazad- 
dûm was not our Father’s house — what is it to us, unless a 
hope of treasure.
CULTURAL BLESSING — REDOUBTABLE
Dwarves make light of burdens, especially when it comes to 
wearing armour.
You halve the Load rating of any armour you’re wear-
ing (rounding fractions up), including helms (but not 
shields).
“Gimli the Dwarf alone wore openly a short shirt of steel- rings, for 
dwarves make light of burdens…”
PETTY- DWARVES
Like other Dwarves, the Dwarves of Nogrod and Belegost can-
not use great bows, great spears, or great shields. In addition, 
it is said that they love none but themselves.
You can only choose another Dwarf as your Fellow -
ship Focus.
STANDARD OF LIVING — COMMON
The treasure of Erebor belongs to Durin’s Folk; many of the 
Dwarves of Nogrod and Belegost can only envy their cousins’ 
good fortune.
Attributes
Choose one set of Attributes, or roll a Success die:
ROLL STRENGTH HEART WITS
1 7 2 5
2 7 3 4
3 6 3 5
4 6 4 4
5 5 4 5
6 6 2 6
DERIVED STATS
Calculate the following scores based on your chosen  Attribute 
ratings:
Endurance STRENGTH  + 22
Hope HEART  + 8
Parry WITS  + 10
SKILLS
Copy the listed Skill ranks onto the character sheet; then, choose 
one Skill among the two underlined and mark it as Favoured.
AWE 2 ENHEARTEN 0 PERSUADE 0
ATHLETICS 1 TRAVEL 2 STEALTH 0
AWARENESS 0 INSIGHT 0 SCAN 3
HUNTING 0 HEALING 0 EXPLORE 2
SONG 1 COURTESY 0 RIDDLE 2
CRAFT 3 BATTLE 0 LORE 2
COMBAT PROFICIENCIES
Copy the following Combat Proficiency ranks onto the char-
acter sheet, selecting a preferred Proficiency when offered 
a choice.
Axes OR Swords 2
Choose one Combat Proficiency 1
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Choose two Distinctive Features among those listed: Cunning, 
Fierce, Proud, Rustic, Secretive, Stern, Wary, Wilful.
LANGUAGES AND TYPICAL NAMES
As all Dwarves, the Dwarves of Nogrod and Belegost speak 
the Common Tongue, and jealously preserve a knowledge 
of their own strange language. After the destruction of their 
ancestral cities, they started adopting names in the tradition 
of the Dwarves of Durin’s line.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 192 =====

188
APPENDIX
Virtues of the Dwarves 
of Nogrod and Belegost
The Dwarves of Nogrod and Belegost can choose their Virtues 
from among those of the Dwarves of Durin’s Folk, replacing 
Broken Spells and Durin’s Way with the following:
ANCIENT FIRE
Whether it is due to the mastery of their Creator, or to a 
simple accustoming to the heat of the forge, it is known that 
the Dwarves withstand elements more hardily than others.
 ♦ Raise your maximum Endurance rating by 1 point. 
Any Endurance loss from extreme cold, fire, and poi-
son you suffer is reduced by one level (grievous to 
severe, severe to moderate, moderate to none).
“...these are the descendants of the Naugrim of the Elder Days, in 
whose hearts still burns the ancient fire of Aulë the Smith…”
TELCHAR’S SECRETS
Telchar, one of the greatest smiths of your folk, wrought the 
Blade that was Broken in the deeps of time. As much as you 
can only hope to match his skill, many of his secrets have 
been revealed to you.
 ♦ Next Yule, you may either add a single Enchanted 
Reward of Dwarven craftsmanship to a mail armour or 
close combat weapon of your choice, or create a Mar-
vellous Artefact (your choice).
“...in metal- work we cannot rival our fathers, many of whose secrets 
are lost.”
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 193 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
189
SOLO PLAY
  
IN MORIA
“Balin has set up his seat in the Chamber of Mazarbul…”
Reclaiming Khazad- dûm
In The Lord of the Rings, we learn of Balin’s ill- fated expedition 
to reclaim the hallowed underhalls through the eyes of the 
Fellow ship, who come upon Balin’s tomb and the moulder -
ing bones of Dwarves pierced by Goblin arrows and spears.
Fierce battles and desperate skirmishes were pitched 
across the width and breadth of this underground kingdom, 
though as readers, we only see the aftermath. For a time, 
before this great doom befell Balin’s band, there was hope in 
Moria — a flickering ember in the hearts of Dwarf- kind. It is 
this ember of hope that you will kindle in your solo journeys.
Joining Balin’s Quest
With these guidelines and tools for solo play, you will explore 
Moria as a member of Balin’s expedition, leading an intrepid 
Band of Dwarves. You and your Allies will face vast darkness 
and long- lost mysteries, entrenched foes and hidden perils, 
all in pursuit of a single, lofty goal — to return the heart of 
the Misty Mountains to its rightful keepers.
See page 176 to learn more about the history of Balin’s 
expedition.
How it Works
This solo campaign offers rules and tools for managing your 
Band of Allies and navigating the dangers of the long dark as 
a solo player. You will create a character, recruit the starting 
members of your Band, and set off on perilous missions in 
pursuit of the dream of a restored Khazad- dûm.
As a solo player, you imagine these missions and take 
action from the perspective of your Player- hero; but you 
also resolve the actions of your Band of Allies, introduce 
encounters and challenges, and create details of the ruins of 
Moria. These rules include guidelines for Battles (page 212) 
and Journeys (page 219) alongside your Allies.
Inspirational tools and tables — in these solo rules and 
elsewhere in this supplement — offer the means of answer -
ing questions and generating events and locations during a 
mission.
Once a mission is completed or abandoned, you return 
to the Safe Haven of Balin’s outpost in the First Hall to rest, 
recover, and plan your next foray into the long dark.
STRIDER MODE
Solo play within Moria is complementary to Strider 
Mode, a supplement for The One Ring  that offers 
rules and tools for solo play, including expanded 
events for overland travel.
You can utilise Strider Mode in addition to these 
guidelines if your adventures take you beyond the 
confines of Moria. However, Strider Mode  is not 
required to play a solo campaign in Moria.
If you prefer to explore Moria as a lone hero 
without the aid of a Band of Allies, you can use 
Strider Mode  alongside some of the resources 
herein to help depict your lone exploration of 
these ancient halls.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 194 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
190
Your Solo Adventurer
As you begin your solo Moria campaign, you create a Player- 
hero as you would in a traditional campaign guided by a 
Lore master. Some additional considerations and guidelines 
are provided below.
Crafting Your Player- hero
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
As a solo player, your newly- created character receives addi -
tional points to spend on Skills and Combat Proficiencies, 
representing the resolve and competence that led them to 
serve as a trusted member of Balin’s expedition.
When allocating your previous experience (page 46 
in The One Ring  core rules), you have 15 points to 
spend instead of 10.
CULTURE
As a leader in Balin’s expedition, you are almost- certainly one 
of Durin’s Folk. However, Balin knew better than most the 
value of allies among the other folk of Middle- earth, so you 
can feasibly originate from any culture.
CALLING
You and your Band have a shared Calling, a motivation that 
connects you and has put you on this perilous path. See page 
195 for details.
VIRTUES
Some Cultural Virtues offer benefits partly or solely for a 
Company of Player- heroes. The Allies among your Band are 
not created as standard Player- heroes, and are not consid -
ered a Company for the purpose of applying benefits from 
Virtues. Thus, be mindful of making a selection useful for a 
solo Player- hero.
FELLOW SHIP RATING
The Fellow ship score signifies the connection you share with 
your Allies and your ties to the broader community of folk 
who have joined Balin’s expedition.
You have a Fellow ship score equal to 3 plus additional 
bonuses from Virtues, Cultural Blessings, and your 
Patron (+1 for Balin).
COOPERATIVE PLAY
These rules are geared for solo play, but can also be used 
for a game in which two Player- heroes lead a Band of 
Allies together.
When you are playing together without a Lore master, 
the normal conversation you would have with the other 
player is expanded to include the details of the world 
you inhabit. When a question or situation arises that 
would be resolved or depicted by the Lore master, you 
both collaborate to decide what happens or use tools 
such as the Telling table ( page 207 ) and Lore table 
(page 208 ) to help inspire an answer.
When you take action to lead the mission, such as 
during travel and battles, decide who is stepping to the 
forefront and making the roll in that moment. Let the 
skills and aspirations of your Player- heroes help drive the 
story, switching between them as appropriate.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 195 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
191
FELLOW SHIP FOCUS
When playing as a solo Player- hero, you do not have a Fellow-
ship Focus. You can ignore this aspect of character creation.
HOPE AND SHADOW
You and your Band share Hope points and Shadow points. 
You are intrinsically linked by the Hope that drives you and 
the Shadow that plagues you.
When creating your Player- hero, raise your maximum 
Hope by 5 points to represent the support of your 
Band.
Adventuring Among 
Balin’s Expedition
YOUR PATRON
Fittingly, your Patron is Balin himself, a Dwarf Lord and 
descendant of Durin. Following the successful quest to 
reclaim Erebor, Balin turned his sights on Moria, the grand-
est of the lost Dwarf kingdoms, and gathered others for a 
grand but perilous expedition.
For the solo player leading a Band of Allies, Balin’s advan-
tage extends to also aid any rolls in a Battle.
PATRON BENEFITS
FELLOW  SHIP BONUS:  +1
 ADVANTAGE:  Balin’s Counsel
Spend Fellow  ship to make a combat roll (or a roll in a 
Battle) Favoured .
YOUR SAFE HAVEN
At the start of your campaign, your Safe Haven is Balin’s 
fledgling encampment in Moria’s First Hall. From here, Balin 
coordinates the efforts of your Band as well as other expedi -
tionary groups. This encampment represents a light in the 
darkness of Moria — a place where weary Dwarves can find 
kinship and respite. Your Band will return to this encamp -
ment across the Bridge of Khazad- dûm between delves into 
the Dwarrowdelf.
In the course of your campaign, you might also help estab-
lish a new Safe Haven deeper within Moria. See page 224.
Your Band comprises trusted members of Balin’s folk who 
accompany your Player- hero. Each member of the Band is 
an Ally, a steadfast Dwarf (or Dwarf- friend).
At the start of the campaign, you have a fledgling 
Band of six Allies. As you complete missions and gain 
standing among the folk of Balin’s expedition, you can 
recruit additional members.
The members of the Band are not created as standard Player- 
heroes. Instead, each Ally is given a quirk to personalise them, 
a Gift that can aid the Band, and a number of conditions to 
track their well- being. The Band as a whole also has its own 
characteristics and conditions. These components are sum -
marised below. You can track these elements using the Mission 
Worksheet, while each member of your band is represented 
by an Ally Card (see next spread).
Readiness
Your Band is largely defined by a single Attribute: Readi -
ness. This measures the overall experience and capability 
of your Allies.
At the start of your campaign, your Band is relatively inex-
perienced within the vast confines of Moria. However, the 
Band’s Readiness can improve as Allies become Hardened 
against the dangers of the long dark.
The starting Readiness for your Band is 4. With the suc-
cessful completion of missions, you can award accom-
plished Allies with the Hardened status to improve your 
Readiness score. See page 224 for details.
Readiness is used to calculate your Band’s default TN — the 
static difficulty level for all rolls made for the Band as a group 
or for an individual Ally.
The Readiness TN is 20 minus its current value. The 
starting Readiness TN is 16.
Your Band
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 196 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
192
Dispositions
Your band has five Dispositions representing their focus 
and abilities: EXPERTISE , MANOEUVRE , RALLY , VIGILANCE , 
and WAR.
Dispositions are used instead of Skills and Combat Profi-
ciencies when resolving challenges for the Band. A Disposi -
tion roll functions like a Skill roll.
When rolling for the Band, roll one Feat Die and a 
number of Success Dice equal to the Disposition rat -
ing. Dispositions are rolled against the Band’s Read-
iness TN.
The default rating for each Disposition is 2, but this is modi-
fied when you assemble your Allies for a mission (page 200).
EXPERTISE  is a broad Disposition, covering the Band’s 
learned skills and knowledge. Activities such as crafting, first- 
aid, hunting, and scholarly lore all fall under EXPERTISE .
MANOEUVRE  measures the Band’s ability to travel at pace 
and navigate treacherous paths. It is also used when coordi -
nated movement or speed is required, such as when fleeing a 
danger, or to avoid attention when sneaking through enemy- 
held territory. A smaller, lightly equipped band has a higher 
MANOEUVRE  rating but a lower WAR rating.
RALLY  represents your Band’s hardiness, courage, camara -
derie, and influence. It is used in tests to resist injuries and 
fatigue, stand together against fearful threats or oppressive 
environments, overcome internal squabbles, and compel oth-
ers to their cause.
Mission Worksheets
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 197 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
193
VIGILANCE  represents your Band’s attentiveness and aware-
ness of their surroundings. It is used to detect threats, notice 
subtle details, maintain alertness during long watches, and 
conduct searches.
WAR  represents the Band’s combined strength, fighting 
prowess, and collective gear. WAR is used to overcome chal -
lenges through force, tactics, or intimidation. Most critically, 
WAR is rolled when engaged in Battles. A large band geared 
for war has a higher WAR rating but a lower MANOEUVRE  
rating.
Personalisation
GIFTS
Each Ally in your Band has a Gift, a role or characteristic that 
grants advantages.
When you recruit an Ally, choose a Gift or roll for one using 
the tables on page 196 — or come up with your own. Each Gift 
is unique and should not be shared among others in the Band.
When a relevant Gift aids an action for your Player- hero 
or the Band, you gain a bonus on that roll. See page 202 to 
learn more about using Gifts.
QUIRKS
Quirks represent unique facets of an Ally’s personality, out -
ward appearance, or behaviour.
For each Ally in your Band, generate a Quirk using the 
tables on page 197, or come up with your own.
Ally Cards
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 198 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
194
Conditions
INJURIES
Unlike your Player- hero, your Allies do not use Endurance 
points to measure their physical stamina. Instead, they suf -
fer Injury conditions when failing to overcome a harmful or 
weakening incident. There are five levels of Injury conditions: 
fleeting, moderate, severe, grievous, and lingering.
A roll to resist physical hardships is called an Endur -
ance test, and is made using your Band’s RALLY  against 
their Readiness TN. When this test fails, an Ally suffers 
an Injury condition.
Immediate Injury conditions are also inflicted upon an Ally 
whenever the Band must suffer a Wound, such as during 
travel events.
Learn more about the Endurance test and Injury condi -
tions on page 203.
FATIGUE
Your Player- hero tracks fatigue points normally, but fatigue 
among your Allies is measured through Fatigue conditions. 
There are four levels of Fatigue conditions: fatigued, falter -
ing, spent, and collapsed.
A roll to resist fatigue is called a Fatigue test, and is 
made using your Band’s RALLY  against their Readi -
ness TN. When this test fails, an Ally suffers a Fatigue 
condition.
Learn more about Fatigue tests and Fatigue conditions on 
page 204.
BURDEN
You do not track Load ratings for your Band’s gear. Instead, 
their Burden represents how heavily they are weighed down 
— as a group — by armour, weapons, supplies, and reclaimed 
resources or treasures. Burden is measured through four lev-
els: light, medium, heavy, and overburdened.
When you set out on a mission, you decide whether to 
focus on strength of arms or on speed and subtlety. This deci-
sion impacts your starting Burden. Then, your Band’s Burden 
can increase or decrease during the course of a mission as 
appropriate to what they pick up or leave behind.
Burden affects your Fatigue tests as described on page 
204. A light Burden aids these tests, while a heavier Burden 
makes them more difficult.
Learn more about setting your Band’s Burden on page 
200, and adjusting their loadout in the midst of a mission 
on page 205.
WEARY
Hardships can escalate among your Band. When half or more 
(rounding up) of the Allies on a mission are lost or suffering 
a serious condition, the Band is made Weary.
Weary has the same effect upon rolls for the Band as 
it does for a Player- hero — causing a 1–3 on Success 
dice to be read as a zero.
Learn more about the Weary condition for your Band on 
page 205.
Improving the Band
When an Ally distinguishes themself through acts of brav -
ery, comradeship, or martial prowess, you can grant them 
Hardened status. This reflects that Ally’s experience, their 
knowledge of Moria’s perils, and their great deeds at your 
side. Optionally, you can also award a Hardened Ally a title 
to celebrate their exploits.
Including Hardened Allies in the roster of a mission bol-
sters the Band’s overall strength and cunning.
Hardened status and titles are awarded during the Fellow-
ship Phase. See page 223 to learn more.
Roleplaying Your Allies
For the most part, you play from the perspective of your 
Player- hero, leading and directing your Allies. Their ability 
to take action and resist hardships is represented by Dispo -
sition rolls. But keep in mind these are free-  minded folk, 
with their own hopes and fears, strengths and failings. They 
should not be portrayed as puppets under your complete con-
trol. If unsure of how an Ally will act or react in an unusual 
situation, use tools such as the Telling table ( page 207) to 
reveal the answer.
Much like your Player- hero has depth beyond your char-
acter sheet, the Band is more than their stats and condi -
tions. Gifts and quirks are a starting place. Find opportu -
nities through the course of your adventures to deepen the 
personalities, talents, and foibles of your Allies. This may, in 
turn, inspire complications and opportunities in your story.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 199 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
195
Shared Callings
When you create your Player- hero, choose a Shared Calling 
for you and your Band instead of one unique to your char -
acter. The table below lists the available callings and their 
associated features.
 ♦ DISPOSITION FOCUS:  This functions similarly to a 
Distinctive Feature. The Band is Inspired when testing 
the listed Disposition, gaining 2d instead of 1d when 
spending a point of Hope.
 ♦ FAVOURED SKILLS:  Choose two of the three listed 
Skills and mark them as Favoured Skills for your 
Player- hero.
 ♦ SHADOW PATH:  This is the path you and your Band 
will follow if you fail to resist Shadow’s influence.
SHARED CALLINGS
CALLING DISPOSITION FOCUS FAVOURED SKILLS (CHOOSE TWO) SHADOW PATH
Reclaimers EXPERTISE CRAFT, LORE, SCAN Dragon- sickness
Pathfinders MANOEUVRE ATHLETICS, EXPLORE, TRAVEL Lure of Secrets
Standard- bearers RALLY ENHEARTEN, PERSUADE, SONG Lure of Power
Guardians VIGILANCE AWARENESS, HEALING, INSIGHT Path of Despair
Vanguards WAR AWE, BATTLE, STEALTH Curse of Vengeance
FOLLOWING DIFFERENT PATHS
If you prefer, you can choose from the Shared Call -
ings for your Band, and select a standard Calling for 
your Player- hero. A leader whose purpose is at odds 
with their followers can make for dramatic stories.
This approach may put you on different Shadow 
Paths. If so, select the most relevant path when trig -
gering a bout of madness. If you are affected by the 
madness, make it your path. If an ally suffers a bout 
of madness, advance along their path.
Within Moria, you also have the option of 
using the Moria- madness Shadow Path for both 
you and your Band (see page 43 ).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 200 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
196
Gathering Allies
“You are not without allies, even if you know them not.”
Use the tables in this section to generate the details of your 
Allies, giving each of them a Gift, quirk, and a name.
Other characteristics of your Allies will come to the fore 
as you interact and adventure with them. These aspects offer 
a baseline for you to build upon through play and discovery.
Your Starting Band
You begin your campaign with six Allies in your Band. You will 
have opportunities to recruit additional Allies — bolstering 
your numbers or replacing those lost to the perils of Moria 
— during the Fellow ship Phase (see page 223 ). For now, 
generate your six Allies by picking or rolling on the tables 
below for each of them, and record their details on Ally Cards.
Gifts
Gifts are a useful focus that each Ally lends to your Band. 
When an Ally’s Gift directly contributes to an action for the 
Band, or if an Ally is acting independently using their Gift, 
gain (1d) on the roll. See more about using Gifts on page 202.
SUCCESS DIE: 1–2
FEAT DIE GIFT
GOBLIN-  SLAYER:  Accustomed to fighting Orcs, 
carries trophies of their kills
1 HEALER:  Carries bandages, forager of herbs, 
treats wounds
2 COOK:  Carries a pot, guards a stash of season -
ing, prepares nourishing meals
3 STONE-  SEER:  Attuned to caves and tunnels, 
identifies minerals
4 DEAD-  EYE: Carries a bow, spots enemies from 
afar, strikes from a distance
5 MIGHTY:  Possesses immense strength, hardier 
than most
6 PROWLER:  At home in the shadows, light on 
their feet, moves unseen
7 INHERITOR:  Noble upbringing, name holds 
sway, wears heirloom armour
8 COURTEOUS:  Learned in customs and manners, 
skilled in negotiation
9 WATCHFUL:  Keen eyes pierce the darkness, 
always on lookout
10 FLEET:  Quick- moving and graceful on their feet
MUSICIAN:  Carries an instrument, lifts spirits 
with song, keeper of lore
MEETING BALIN’S FOLK
When the narrative leads you to interact with 
comrades outside of your Band, you can use the 
tables found in this section to generate other 
Dwarves involved in Balin’s expedition, such as 
those belonging to other exploratory groups or 
devoted to tasks within Balin’s camp.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 201 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
197
SUCCESS DIE: 3–4
FEAT DIE GIFT
GRIM FURY:  Rage inspires fear, merciless in 
combat, uncanny strength
1 IRON GUT:  Resistant to illness and disease, sniffs 
out rot and poison
2 SCOUT:  Adept at finding safe paths, rarely gets 
lost
3 ARTIST:  Carries charcoal and parchment, identi -
fies symbols, preserves history
4 SMITH:  Carries metalworking tools, understands 
the craft, identifies items
5 CARTOGRAPHER:  Carries maps, knowledgeable 
of paths and chambers
6 CLIMBER:  Carries rope and pinions, scales walls, 
traverses difficult terrain
7 INDOMITABLE:  Immovable in combat, ignores 
pain, incredible fortitude
8 VAULTBREAKER:  Carries tools for disabling traps 
and locks
9 BIRD-  FRIEND:  Accompanied by a loyal bird 
companion, used to scout, spy
10 SHIELD-  BEARER:  Protector of allies, front- line 
defender, draws enemy focus
NATURAL LEADER:  Rallies comrades, instills 
courage, coordinates efforts
SUCCESS DIE: 5–6
FEAT DIE GIFT
SHADOW-  TOUCHED:  Deep knowledge of the 
Shadow, haunted by visions
1 LOREKEEPER:  Carries a tome of knowledge, 
keeps a ledger, recalls lore
2 CHARMER:  Uncanny charisma, smooth-  talker, 
adept at parlaying
3 GEM-  HOUND:  Sniffs out valuables, gem-  
knowledge, carries mining tools
4 BEAST-  WHISPERER:  Attuned to animals, com -
mune with beasts, carries treats
5 FLAME-  TENDER:  Never lets the fire go out, 
keeper of light, exudes warmth
6 BREW-  MASTER:  Carries keg and tankards, read -
ily pours drinks
7 MIRTHFUL:  Carries pipeweed, quick with a song 
or poem, lifts spirits
8 QUARTERMASTER:  Carries extra supplies, tracks 
resources
9 GREEN THUMB:  Good with plant life, identifies 
useful herbs
10 SOOTHSAYER:  Carries divining runes, tells for -
tunes, guides efforts
BATTLE-  TESTED:  Carries weapon of renown, 
instills awe and fear in enemies
Quirks
Quirks are unique aspects of an Ally’s appearance, personality, 
or behaviour that set them apart from the rest of the Band. 
Generate a quirk for each Ally by first rolling a Success Die 
and then rolling on the corresponding quirk table.
SUCCESS DIE: 1–2
FEAT DIE QUIRK
Always ready with a song
1 Bears grisly battle scars
2 Braided beard down to their knees
3 Can fall asleep anywhere
FEAT DIE QUIRK
4 Casual with vulgar language
5 Constantly sipping from a flask
6 Fingers adorned with rings
7 Obsessed with food
8 Prefers to be alone
9 Smokes a pipe incessantly
10 Infamous prankster
Wears an eye patch
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 202 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
198
SUCCESS DIE: 3–4
FEAT DIE OUIRK
Carries a prized bag of spices and herbs
1 Carries legendary weapon of forebears
2 Hard of hearing
3 Keeps a well- worn tankard on their belt
4 Proudly wears a token of another culture
5 Shield adorned with battle trophies
6 Speaks only in Khuzdul
7 Speaks with a strange, regional accent
8 Overly eager to please
9 Weapons/armour encrusted with gems
10 Wears a necklace of Goblin ears
Wields a pickaxe as a weapon
SUCCESS DIE: 5–6
FEAT DIE OUIRK
Always scribbling in a journal
1 Constantly covered in soot and grime
2 Deeply religious; carries a holy symbol
3 Draped in animal furs
4 Dwarf- friend of another culture
5 Fiercely guards old family memento
6 Always expects the worst
7 Harbours a fascination with rocks
8 Often lost in thought
9 Ready with an old war story at any time
10 Wears a fully- enclosed helm; rarely removes it
Wispy beard shrouds a youthful face
Names
To generate a name for each Ally in your Band, first roll a Suc-
cess Die, then roll on the corresponding name column. Note 
that the names on these tables are intended for Dwarves; for 
Dwarf- friends of other cultures serving in the Band, choose 
an appropriate name from those listed for each culture in 
The One Ring core rules.
You’ll find additional Dwarvish names in The One Ring  
core rules, page 35.
SUCCESS DIE: 1–2 3–4 5–6
FEAT DIE NAME NAME NAME
Ánar Austri Bári
1 Bildur Bláin Blóvur
2 Broc Brúni Dári
SUCCESS DIE: 1–2 3–4 5–6
FEAT DIE NAME NAME NAME
3 Dolg Dúrnir Eitri
4 Fáin Fár Farli
5 Frár Fridh Frosti
6 Galar Grer Grim
7 Hilding Hór Íri
8 Lítir Móin Mondul
9 Munin Nár Nyr
10 Regin Sindri Tóki
Úri Vár Vili
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 203 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
199
Planning a Mission
In this phase, you decide the nature of your upcoming mission 
and ready the members of your Band. Have a fresh Mission 
Worksheet handy — you’ll use this sheet to note your Band’s 
stats and assemble your roster of Allies.
Complete this phase by following these steps:
1. Set the Mission Objective
2. Choose Your Allies
3. Set the Band’s Composition
4. Set the Hunt Threshold
5. Begin the Mission
Set the Mission Objective
To randomly determine the goal of a mission, as directed 
by Balin or other expedition leaders, roll on the Mission 
Objective table. Expand on the prompt in the table to flesh 
out the nature of the mission.
The quests in the Mission Objective table are not the sum 
total of possibilities for your adventure. Mission objectives will 
also emerge naturally from your story as you gain footholds, 
make discoveries, and encounter perils on your expeditions 
into Moria. Whenever possible, let the events and outcome 
of one mission lead to the next. Set your goals from your 
Player- hero’s perspective. If your plans run contrary to what 
you imagine as Balin’s own strategies, consider taking part in 
a Council to convince Balin and other Dwarf leaders of the 
importance of your objective.
For a more abstract mission prompt, roll on the Lore 
table (page 208) and interpret the results in the context of 
Balin’s goals here in Moria.
SUCCESS DIE: 1–3 4–6
FEAT DIE MISSION MISSION
Repel enemies encroaching upon a 
reclaimed area
Defeat a champion of the Shadow (Archfoe) and their minions
1 Seek a lost relic thought to be hidden 
in Moria
Embark beyond the walls of Moria to deliver a message home
2 Scout out the enemy’s fortifications and 
report your findings
Escort a beleaguered expeditionary group back to a Safe Haven
3 Chart a safe route to a landmark Seek out the source of a corruption tainting food and water
4 Reclaim an important landmark Establish a new expeditionary camp
5 Free captives held by enemy minions Capture an enemy spy and discover what they know
6 Deliver an urgent message to another 
expeditionary group
Recover lost records of ancient Dwarves
7 Open up a new road or gate previously 
blocked
Reclaim a captured treasure
8 Fortify the defences in a remote area Find a missing expeditionary group and escort any survivors to safety
9 Investigate rumours of a nameless fear Find and secure a hidden passage exploited by the enemy
10 Secure a cache of important resources Secure a storehouse of Mithril ingots
An Ally reveals a personal goal (roll on the 
Lore table for inspiration)
Balin trusts you with a mission of personal significance (roll on the 
Lore table for inspiration)
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 204 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
200
Choose Your Allies
Select available Allies from your Band’s roster to accompany 
you on this mission. Write the names of the selected Allies 
on your Mission Worksheet, and assemble their Ally cards 
for reference.
At the start of the campaign, you have only six Allies in 
your Band. This is the maximum you can lead on your first 
mission.
If a previous mission brought hardships to your Allies, 
any who did not fully recover from a condition during the 
Fellow ship Phase still suffer that condition as you begin a 
new mission. If you bring them along, mark those condition 
boxes on your Mission Worksheet.
Finally, adjust your Readiness score for this mission based 
on the number of Hardened Allies joining you (if any). Hard-
ened Allies have proven themselves on a mission, and were 
awarded that status in the Fellow ship Phase ( page 224). If 
this is your first mission, none of your Allies are Hardened.
Your Readiness score is 4. If you are accompanied 
by one or more Hardened Allies, increase that score 
using the table below. Mark your Readiness score and 
your Readiness TN (20−Readiness) on your Mission 
Worksheet.
READINESS BONUS
HARDENED ALLIES ON MISSION BONUS
None +0
One +1
Two or more +2
Half the Band (rounding up) or more +3
All members of the Band +4
Set the Band’s Composition
Based on the needs of the mission and the Allies you have 
selected, decide the makeup of your Band by setting the size, 
war gear loadout, and specialisation using the table below.
Each Disposition defaults to a rating of 2. Adjust those 
values using the tables below. Mark down your final 
Disposition ratings and your Burden on the Mission 
Worksheet.
COMPOSITION
SIZE MODIFIERS
Small Band (1–4) −1 WAR /+1 MANOEUVRE
Medium Band (5–8) —
Large Band (9–12) +1 WAR /−1 MANOEUVRE
WAR GEAR MODIFIERS
Travelling Light −1 WAR /Light Burden
Prepared Medium Burden
Geared for War +1 WAR /Heavy Burden
SPECIALISATION MODIFIERS
Sentinels +1 VIGILANCE
Stalwarts +1 RALLY
Experts +1 EXPERTISE
Set the Eye Awareness Score
Even deep beneath the Misty Mountains, the Great Eye is 
ever- watchful, as servants and spies of the Shadow lurk in 
the dark of Moria.
Your base Eye Awareness will only change between mis -
sions when you gain VALOUR  or wield a new Famous Weapon 
or Armour. Set the base score to 0, modified by the table 
below.
BASE EYE AWARENESS
FACTOR
EYE AWARENESS 
MODIFIER
You are a Dwarf +1
You are an Elf or Dúnadan +2
You are a High Elf +3
You carry a Famous Weapon or Armour +1 for each
You have a VALOUR  of 4 or more +1
A larger Band has more potential to stir the minions of 
Shadow within Moria, and notable items carried by a Hard -
ened Ally (page 224) can further draw the attention of the 
Enemy. Add to the Eye Awareness for this mission as shown 
in the table below .
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 205 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
201
EYE AWARENESS MODIFIER
SIZE
EYE AWARENESS 
MODIFIER
Small Band (1–4) +0
Medium Band (5–8) +2
Large Band (9–12) +4
Famous Weapon or Armour 
 carried by an Ally
+1 for each
With those calculations complete, mark down your total start-
ing Eye Awareness on the mission sheet.
Set the Hunt Threshold
At the time of Balin’s expedition, Sauron is awake and his 
spies and servants are on the hunt — even in the deepest 
places of the world. As noted on page 220, Moria is consid -
ered a Dark Land. The default base Hunt threshold is set at 14.
However, if you successfully pushed back the influence of 
Shadow in a region of Moria in the course of your missions, 
you can mark that region as a Wild Land (with the Hunt 
threshold set at 16). Any such victories are undoubtedly short- 
lived, but may permit safer travel through Moria for a time. 
See page 206 for more information.
If you travel outside of Moria, use the table below to set 
your base Hunt threshold for the mission. If you move from 
one region to another in the course of your travels, adjust 
the Hunt threshold appropriately.
BASE HUNT THRESHOLD
THE REGION TRAVERSED IS A… HUNT THRESHOLD
Border Land 18
Wild Land 16
Dark Land 14
The success or failure of your previous mission will influence 
the foothold that Shadow has gained. With failures and long 
recoveries, the Enemy may seek to exploit a perceived weak-
ness. Likewise, with successes and pressing your advantage, 
you may send the servants of the Enemy scurrying into the 
darkness.
To integrate this larger struggle as a factor in your mission, 
adjust the starting Hunt threshold using the table below. If 
this is your first mission, you can skip this step. See page 223 
to learn more about Fellow ship Phase durations.
HUNT THRESHOLD MODIFIERS
PREVIOUS MISSION MODIFIERS
Your previous mission was an 
astounding success
+4
Your previous mission was a qualified 
success
+0
Your previous mission was a minor 
failure
−2
Your previous mission was a 
devastating failure
−4
FELLOW  SHIP PHASE DURATION MODIFIERS
Hurried (hours) +2
Brief (days) +0
Extended (weeks) −2
Begin the Mission
Ready your gear, gather your comrades, and steel yourself 
for the perils ahead.
You will likely begin your mission with a journey as you set 
off from your Safe Haven along the dark paths of Moria. Jump 
to page 34 to learn about journeys in Moria, and page 219 
for details on undertaking journeys within the solo campaign. 
For details on managing your Band and resolving challenges 
within Moria, turn to the next page.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 206 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
202
This section contains guidelines for managing your Band and 
overcoming trials within the solo campaign.
Exploring Moria
Whether enduring a days- long journey through Moria or 
investigating a specific location, you can use the tools and 
descriptions provided in this book to help envision the expe-
riences and dangers that await you and your Band.
As a solo player, you will often need to separate your 
knowledge as the player from the limited perspective of 
your Player- hero. For example, if a hidden pit is included 
in the description of a location, your Player- hero and their 
Band have no knowledge of that danger until they are tested 
against it. Use Skill rolls and Disposition rolls to learn how 
your Player- hero and their Band fare against the dangers and 
opportunities of Moria, not letting your knowledge as the 
player impact their chances.
But Moria is also a place of deep mysteries. You will be sur-
prised by what you uncover — as both the player and Player-  
hero — using tools such as the Random Chamber Generator 
(page 44 ), Telling and Lore tables ( page 207  and 208 ), 
and Journey events tables (page 220).
Making Rolls
As a solo player, you must decide when rolls are necessary, 
a task that usually falls to the Lore master. It might seem 
counter- intuitive to challenge your own success, but consider 
that each roll of the dice in The One Ring  presents equal 
opportunity for triumph and despair.
Roll when risk is involved — when the possibility of fail -
ure affects the narrative. For further guidance, see “When to 
Roll” on page 16 of The One Ring core rules.
TAKING THE LEAD
These rules often dictate whether you act as your Player-  
hero, or make a roll for the Band. For example, when you 
seek to inspire your Allies in a battle, it is your Player- hero’s 
ENHEARTEN  skill that will be tested. When the Band suffers 
a harmful event, make an Endurance Test using their RALLY  
Disposition.
Other times, you are left to decide who steps to the fore 
in an action — choosing between your Player- hero and one 
or more members of the Band. In these cases, pick whoever 
is most suited to the situation (or who would insist on taking 
the lead regardless).
ROLLING FOR YOUR PLAYER- HERO
Make rolls for your Player- hero as normal, imagining your 
intent and resolving the outcome. If in doubt about the con-
sequences of an action, look to tools such as the Telling table 
(page 207).
ROLLING FOR THE BAND
When an Ally or your Band as a group faces a challenge, roll 
one Feat Die and a number of Success Dice equal to the 
most appropriate Disposition rating. Compare the result to 
their Readiness TN.
The Readiness TN is 20 minus its current value, set 
when you plan the mission (page 200).
If you are making the equivalent of a Skill roll for the Band, 
use whatever Disposition is most relevant to the Player- hero 
skill that would normally be rolled. For example, use RALLY  in 
place of ENHEARTEN , WAR in place of BATTLE , and MANOEU -
VRE  in place of ATHLETICS .
USING GIFTS
When an Ally utilises their Gift to lead an action, it adds 
a bonus to the roll. Gifts can be used when the Band acts 
together, or when the Gift’s wielder acts independently.
When an Ally’s gift directly contributes to an action for 
the Band, or if an Ally is acting independently using 
their Gift, gain (1d) on the roll. A roll can only gain a 
bonus from a single Gift.
Using a Gift gives that Ally focus in your story — a chance 
to show their quality. But it can also put them in harm’s way. 
CHRONICLING YOUR ADVENTURES
In The Lord of the Rings , we learn of the Book of 
Mazarbul , a record of Balin’s doomed expedition, 
pulled from among the corpses piled in eternal 
vigil of the King of Moria’s final resting place. Con -
sider keeping your own chronicle of these events — 
the discoveries you make, the battles you fight, and 
the triumphs and woes you experience. Your own 
Book of Mazarbul might be brief, bulleted notes, 
more descriptive retellings of events, or even the 
personal journal entries of your Player- hero.
Undertaking Missions
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 207 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
203
Consider how the consequences of a failed roll might affect that 
Ally. In addition, a harrowing outcome or close call will rattle 
the Ally’s confidence or capabilities, making the Gift ineffective.
If you roll an  when using a Gift, that Gift is wasted 
and no longer provides a bonus. Mark the Gift as 
wasted on that Ally Card to indicate it being unavailable.
During a Fellow ship Phase of Brief or Extended duration 
(page 223 ), clear any marked boxes to regain the use of 
Wasted Gifts.
SELECTING A TARGET
In most cases, the target of a consequence is based on who 
initiated or led the action. However, actions for your Band 
might lead to consequences for your Player-  hero, and vice-  
versa. Resolve these actions in the way that best fits the sit -
uation. If you’re unsure if an outcome or event affects your 
Player- hero or an Ally, roll a Success die: an odd result indi -
cates your Band, and an even means your Player- hero.
When your Band is targeted by effects such as Wounds, 
the Ally who will face the consequence will often be obvious. 
If in doubt, roll a Feat Die and check the values shown on 
your Mission Worksheet, rolling again if needed. Or pick two 
Allies and let a Success Die choose between them using the 
process described above.
DESPERATE STANDS
When a roll for the Band or Player- hero fails in a critical 
moment, there is a chance for an Ally to save the day — but 
at a potentially great cost.
To make a desperate stand following a failed roll, 
choose an Ally who will step into the fray. Then repeat 
the roll, making the new roll Favoured and Inspired. If 
you roll a , the Ally survives. Otherwise, succeed or 
fail, the Ally is lost, having made the ultimate sacrifice 
for the sake of their fellows.
Endurance Tests and Injuries
The consequences of physical hardships are tracked for your 
Band using Endurance Tests and Injury conditions.
MAKING AN ENDURANCE TEST
Your Band of Allies does not track Endurance Points. Instead, 
when they are subjected to potential harm, you must make 
an Endurance Test. This test is likely to result in a fleeting 
injury, a minor setback that can lead to more serious injuries. 
But with some luck, they will emerge none the worse for wear.
Whenever the Band faces physical harm, make a RALLY 
roll. In a Battle (page 212), the TN of this roll is modi-
fied by the Might of the foe (TN + Might). Outside of a 
Battle, modify the roll by choosing an appropriate rank 
on the Damage Threat table. If in doubt, make it painful.
DAMAGE THREAT
TYPE MODIFIER
Bothersome 0
Painful 1
Vicious 2
Dreadful 3
With success on the RALLY  roll, your allies emerge unscathed. 
Their strength and fortitude have won out.
On a failure, a member of the Band suffers an Injury con-
dition. Follow the guidelines below to determine the severity 
of the injury.
 ♦ If the Ally is currently uninjured, they suffer a fleeting 
injury.
 ♦ If the Ally is already injured, worsen the rank of their 
injury one step using the Injury Severity table; for 
example, from fleeting to moderate.
If the Endurance test fails with an  icon, you must instead 
do one of the following:
 ♦ Roll on the Injury Severity table to learn the nature of 
the damage (putting the fate of that Ally to chance).
 ♦ Apply an injury condition to two Allies (fleeting if 
uninjured, or one rank higher from the current 
injury).
INJURY SEVERITY
FEAT DIE CONDITION EFFECT
Grievous 
Injury
The Ally is unconscious and Dying. 
If they survive, the grievous injury 
persists unless they receive First Aid 
during a Prolonged Rest. If they 
suffer another injury, they are dead.
1–3 Severe 
Injury
The injury can improve with suc -
cessful First Aid during a Pro -
longed Rest.
4–10 Moderate 
Injury
The Ally recovers fully with a Pro -
longed Rest.
Fleeting 
injury
The Ally recovers fully with a short 
rest.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 208 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
204
LINGERING INJURY:  If an Ally suffers a grievous injury and 
is given successful First Aid during a Prolonged Rest, their 
condition improves to a lingering injury. But this will haunt 
them for the remainder of the mission. If they suffer another 
grievous injury, they are dead.
Severe, grievous, and lingering injuries are serious conditions 
that count toward the Band becoming Weary.
INFLICTING WOUNDS UPON YOUR ALLIES
Endurance tests are used for your Band in situations that 
would drain Endurance for a Player- hero. When your Band 
faces a Wound as a consequence, such as during a failed 
Journey Event, do not make an Endurance Test. Instead, the 
Wound is immediately applied as an Injury condition to an 
Ally. Roll on the Injury Severity table to learn its rank.
Similarly, whenever situations arise in your adventures 
that are certain to result in an injury to one or more Allies, 
simply apply that consequence. Pick a rank in the Injury 
Severity table, or roll for a random rank.
DYING ALLIES
If an Ally suffers a grievous injury, they are incapacitated and 
Dying. As with a Player- hero, a Dying Ally must receive a suc-
cessful HEALING  (or EXPERTISE ) roll within approximately 
1 hour or they will die.
If the roll to give aid to a grievously injured Ally is a success, 
they are saved. But the injury remains a grievous one unless 
they receive additional First Aid during a Prolonged Rest.
If a grievously injured Ally suffers another injury, they 
are dead — another Dwarf joins the lost souls in the deep 
dark of Moria.
RECOVERY AND FIRST AID
For the Player- hero, the recovery period for severe and grievous 
injuries is expressed in a number of days (as described on page 
101 of The One Ring core rules). To simplify the tracking of inju-
ries and recovery for your Band of Allies, use these guidelines.
 ♦ FLEETING INJURY:  Mended with a short rest.
 ♦ MODERATE INJURY:  Mended with a Prolonged Rest.
To treat an Ally’s severe or grievous injury, make a HEALING  (or 
EXPERTISE ) roll during a Prolonged Rest. Lose (1d) if the injury 
is grievous. This is limited to one roll for each Prolonged Rest.
 ♦ SEVERE INJURY:  With a successful First Aid roll 
during a Prolonged Rest, a severe injury improves to a 
moderate injury.
 ♦ GRIEVOUS INJURY:  With a successful First Aid roll 
during a Prolonged Rest, a grievous injury improves to 
a lingering injury. The lingering injury will only mend 
with an extended rest during a Fellow ship Phase. If an 
ally faces another grievous injury while suffering a lin-
gering injury, they are dead with no recourse.
Once at a Safe Haven, any still- injured Allies recover as 
detailed in the Fellow ship Phase guidelines on page 223.
Fatigue Tests and Conditions
The Player- hero and the Band both suffer Fatigue points 
during Journeys as defined by the Journey Events table (page 
220). For the solo Player-  hero, this fatigue is managed as 
normal — it accumulates over time, raising your total Load 
and making it easier for your character to become Weary.
Your Allies do not track accumulated Fatigue points. 
Instead, whenever Fatigue is gained as a result of a Journey 
Event, make a Fatigue Test to see how deeply the effects of 
the journey weigh upon them.
Whenever the Band gains Fatigue points, make a 
RALLY  roll. The TN of this roll is modified by the 
number of Fatigue Points gained during the Journey 
Event (TN + Fatigue). The Band’s current Burden can 
aid or hamper their efforts on this roll as shown on 
the Burden Modifier table.
BURDEN MODIFIER
BURDEN BONUS/PENALTY
Light Gain (1d)
Medium —
Heavy Lose (1d)
Overburdened Lose (2d)
With a success on the RALLY  roll, your allies bear the hardship 
of the journey without noticeable ill- effects. The prolonged 
efforts of delving into the heart of Moria will surely carry a 
cost in the long run, but for now, they are holding up.
On a failure, a member of the Band suffers a Fatigue con-
dition. Follow the guidelines below to determine the severity 
of the fatigue.
 ♦ If the Ally is not currently fatigued, mark that box on 
the Mission Worksheet.
 ♦ If the Ally is already suffering the effects of fatigue, 
worsen the rank one step using the Fatigue Condi-
tions table. For example, shifting their condition from 
fatigued to faltering.
If the Fatigue test fails with an  icon, you must instead do 
one of the following:
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 209 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
205
 ♦ Set an unaffected Ally’s condition to faltering (skip-
ping over fatigued).
 ♦ Shift an already- affected Ally’s condition up two ranks 
(for example, from fatigued to spent).
 ♦ Apply a fatigue condition to two Allies (fatigued if unaf-
fected, or one rank higher from their current condition).
FATIGUE CONDITIONS
RANK EFFECT
Fatigued —
Faltering —
Spent —
Collapsed The Ally is incapacitated
Spent and collapsed are serious conditions and count toward 
the Band becoming Weary.
RECOVERING FROM FATIGUE CONDITIONS
A collapsed Ally improves to the spent condition with a Pro -
longed Rest — enough to get them back on their feet. Fatigued, 
faltering, and spent Allies only improve during Prolonged Rests 
in a sheltered and safe refuge. Within Moria, this is generally 
your Safe Haven as part of your Fellow ship Phase (page 223).
Adjusting Burden
Your Band’s Burden is tracked through four levels: light, 
medium, heavy, and overburdened. When you set off on a 
mission, the current Burden reflects your choice of gear — 
if your Band is outfitted for war or speed. Heavy Burden (or 
greater) inflicts a penalty on your Fatigue tests.
Through the course of your adventure, you may have 
cause to adjust your Burden. Anytime your Band must take 
on significant new weight, worsen the rank of their Burden by 
one step. If you abandon significant weight, improve the rank.
If you set off on the mission geared for war, and abandon 
your heavy armour and weapons to lighten your Burden, you 
must also remove the bonus that was applied to their WAR rank. 
In addition, leaving behind precious Dwarf- forged war gear for 
Orcs to wield against you is likely to weigh heavily upon you and 
your Band in another fashion, causing you to gain Shadow points.
Becoming Weary
Keep a running tally of losses and hardships among your Band 
from the list below. If at least half the Allies on this mission 
(rounding up) are lost or suffering from a serious condition, 
the Band is Weary.
 ♦ OUT OF ACTION:  Missing, fled, abandoned, or killed
 ♦ SERIOUS INJURY CONDITIONS:  Severe, grievous, or 
lingering
 ♦ SERIOUS FATIGUE CONDITIONS:  Spent or collapsed
A Weary band suffers the same penalty when taking action 
as a Weary Player- hero.
When making a roll for a Weary Band, all the Success 
Dice that come up showing a result in an outlined 
number (1, 2, or 3) are considered to have given a 
result of zero instead.
Managing Hope
You and your Band share the same pool of Hope points. Hope 
is spent as normal to grant a bonus on any die roll.
Suffering Shadow
The effects of Shadow are managed for you and your Band 
as a group, and you share a pool of Shadow points. These 
Shadow Points are accumulated, tested, and reduced as 
described starting on page 136 of The One Ring  core rules, 
with the following considerations for leading a Band.
THE WEIGHT OF LOSSES
Injuries or deaths among your fellows weigh heavily on you 
and your Band.
When an Ally suffers a Severe Injury or Grievous 
Injury, gain 1 Shadow Point (Dread). If an Ally is killed, 
lost, or left behind, gain 2 Shadow Points (Dread).
SHADOW TESTS
You can attempt to cancel or reduce the amount of Shadow 
Points gained by you and your Band through a Shadow Test.
As the leader, you have the most influence in pushing back 
the effects of Shadow. Resolve the Shadow Test as normal using 
either VALOUR  (for Dread) or WISDOM  (for Greed or Sorcery).
BECOMING MISERABLE
The misery of Shadow weighs upon you all. If your Shadow 
score equals or exceeds the current Hope rating, you and 
your Band are now Miserable. All rolls that show an  on 
the Feat die automatically fail.
If you are struggling under the weight of Shadow, you 
can accept a Shadow scar as described on page 137 of The 
One Ring core rules.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 210 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
206
BOUTS OF MADNESS
If your Shadow Score reaches your maximum Hope, you and 
your Band are Ill- favoured on all rolls. You can only get rid of 
this accumulated Shadow by playing out a bout of madness.
A bout of madness affects the Player- hero or one Ally, 
chosen or randomly selected by the Player.
The bout of madness will undoubtedly cause trouble among the 
Band. It also has farther- reaching implications as you and the 
Band advance along your Shadow Path and develop a new Flaw.
Flaws apply to you and the Band as a whole but can mani-
fest within an individual. When a Flaw is gained, make note of 
it. If a situation in your story triggers a Flaw (ask the Telling 
table on page 207 if unsure), consider how this creates con -
flicts among the Band and tests your leadership. In addition, 
a Flaw can cause related rolls to be Ill- favoured as described 
on page 141 of The One Ring core rules.
SUCCUMBING TO SHADOW
If you or your Band advance to the end of your Shadow Path, 
the fellowship is broken. Your quest to aid Balin and reclaim 
Khazad- dûm is over.
Managing Eye Awareness
INCREASING EYE AWARENESS
Use the guidelines for increasing Eye Awareness as detailed 
starting on page 170 of The One Ring core rules.
In addition, making noise within Moria can increase Eye 
Awareness as described on page 39.
Also, an  result on the Ill- fortune table ( page 210) 
will raise the Eye Awareness Score by 2. This is in addition 
to the increase from the initial  result which triggered a 
roll on that table. The Eye is fixed upon you!
REVELATION EPISODES
When your Eye Awareness matches or exceeds the current 
Hunt threshold, you must face a Revelation episode.
Imagine a threat that best represents the current situ -
ation, or roll on the table below to select from the Moria 
Revelation Episode tables starting on page 40 . If you set 
a Revelation episode in motion outside the perception of 
your Player- hero, make note of it and consider how it may 
later reveal itself.
REVELATION EPISODE TRIGGER
SUCCESS DIE TABLE
1–3 Dire Portents ( page 40)
4–5 Orc Assault ( page 41 )
6 Terrors of the Dark ( page 42 )
Reclaiming Treasures
Uncountable treasures lie in the darkness of Moria. Some 
relics and treasure hoards are hidden or lost. Others have 
been seized and are in the clutches of Orcs, Goblins, and 
other vile denizens.
If a mission sends you to recover a fabled treasure, or you 
uncover a treasure over the course of your adventures, you 
can claim that prize and return with it to your Safe Haven.
Use the process described starting on page 158 of The One 
Ring rulebook to reveal the contents and value of a treasure 
hoard. If unsure of the size of a hoard, roll on the table below.
HOARD RATING
SUCCESS DIE RATING
1–3 Lesser
4–5 Greater
6 Marvellous
When generating treasure points for a hoard, roll only for 
your Player- hero. This is your portion of the treasure, with 
the rest to be shared among the Band and to fund the rec -
lamation of Khazad- dûm. If you decide a special item is 
PUSHING BACK THE DARK
By default, Moria is considered a Dark Land for 
the purposes of setting the Hunt threshold (see 
page 201 ) and for rolling Journey events. How -
ever, if your efforts to reclaim an area or mitigate 
the influence of Shadow are successful, you may 
set the affected region to a Wild Land.
Make the points between secured areas a Wild 
Land instead of a Dark Land. The immediate sur -
rounds of a secure area are also somewhat safer 
for you and your Band, meaning you can set off 
on a journey into unsecured areas and make the 
first leg of that journey a Wild Land.
If unsure of the effects of your efforts, or 
whether a reclaimed area has since been overrun, 
use the Telling table. Ask: “Is this area a Wild Land?” 
If “no,” make it a Dark Land.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 211 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
207
predestined for a member of your Band, you can award it to 
them as described on page 224.
More importantly, reclaiming a notable treasure builds 
your reputation in the eyes of your kin, represented as an 
Experience point milestone (page 211).
YOUR TREASURE INDEX
As detailed starting on page 160 of The One Ring  rulebook, 
you can create your own index of treasures or download 
sample indexes. As both player and Lore master, you can 
customise an index to the interests of your character and 
the level of magic you desire in your campaign. If you want 
to leave a discovery in the hands of fate, assign Feat die 
values to each item in your index and treat it as a random 
table you can roll on.
No matter your approach, work to ensure that magical 
objects are truly unique and wondrous — a rare find that can 
turn the tide of your campaign.
THE BURDEN OF RICHES
You must consider the difficulty of carrying treasure back to 
your Safe Haven. A haul can increase your Band’s Burden 
(page 205), or it might be impractical to carry any significant 
hoard without the benefit of wagons and pack animals. Better 
to grab the truly remarkable items, hoping what remains will 
someday find its way back to Dwarven vaults.
Solo Tools
Without the guidance of a Lore master, the solo player has 
only themselves to help build the story. The tools contained 
herein help shoulder this burden.
 ♦ THE TELLING TABLE  (this page) helps answer sim-
ple questions about locations, people, creatures, and 
events. Use this table when you would normally ask the 
Lore master a yes/no question.
 ♦ THE LORE TABLE  (page 208) helps inspire answers 
to open- ended questions, as well as revealing new 
events and situations.
 ♦ THE FORTUNE  and ILL- FORTUNE TABLES  (page 
210) offer prompts for narrative outcomes when a  
rune or  icon is rolled on your Feat Die.
 ♦ SPECIAL SUCCESS TABLE  (page 211): Includes bene-
fits of a superior result for solo play
 ♦ MILESTONES  (page 211): Guidelines for awarding 
Experience and Fellow ship points to your Player- hero.
The Telling Table
One of the most useful and versatile tools at a solo player’s 
disposal is the Telling table. Use the Telling table when posing 
questions answerable by “yes” or “no.” This table helps resolve 
questions normally answered by a Lore master, revealing details 
of the world and the intent or actions of other characters.
To use the Telling table:
 ♦ Ask your question, with “yes” being the positive out-
come (from the perspective of your Player- hero).
 ♦ Set the chance of a “yes” (with “middling” as the default).
 ♦ Roll one Feat die and consult the Telling table for your 
answer.
Note also that rolling either the  rune or  icon results in 
an automatic yes or no, respectively, with an extreme result 
or twist.
TELLING TABLE
CHANCE
ROLL A FEAT DIE.  
THE ANSWER IS YES  IF YOU ROLL…
Certain 1 or greater
Likely 4 or greater
Middling 6 or greater
Doubtful 8 or greater
Unthinkable 10
: Always yes, with an extreme result or twist
: Always no, with an extreme result or twist
For example, your Player- hero casts their torch against a stone 
fresco draped with cobwebs, seeking familiar icons or figures 
in the scene depicted. You ask “Do I recognize anything in 
this fresco?” You set the chance to “doubtful” and roll.
You roll a , which according to the Telling table is 
“always yes, with an extreme result or twist.” You determine, 
perhaps with help from the Lore table (page 208), that your 
Player- hero does in fact recognize something in the fresco: 
the well- worn symbol of a great Dwarven house, members 
of which now accompany Balin in this very quest. Perhaps 
they would know more!
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 212 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
208
The Lore Table
Use the Lore table to help reveal details when asking an open- 
ended question about a situation or event. The table includes 
four columns: Action, Aspect, Focus, and Feature. You can 
roll on one column for a single word prompt, or two or more 
to construct a prompt phrase.
To roll on the table, use one Feat die to determine the 
section, and one Success die for the row.
The Lore table can answer questions such as:
 ♦ “What is this Dwarf’s nature?” (Aspect)
 ♦ “What mission does Balin have for me?” (Action, 
Aspect, Focus)
 ♦ “What is the subject of this mural?” (Aspect, Focus)
 ♦ “What do I find in the next chamber?” (Aspect, 
Feature)
 ♦ “What are some details of the room where we take our 
rest?” (Feature, Feature)
Depending on the situation, the result might be taken liter -
ally, or interpreted as an abstraction. Part of the fun of solo 
roleplaying is deciding how these enigmatic riddles relate 
to your current situation. If a result doesn’t fit or is hard to 
apply to the current situation, roll again or check adjacent 
rows for your answer.
For example, your Player- hero speaks with an Ally and 
learns more of their background. Rolling on the Lore table 
to determine the nature of the discovery, you roll an Aspect 
of “Broken” and a Focus of “Folk.” You decide that the Ally 
originates from an ancient Dwarven house, once- great but 
broken long- ago by war and calamity. This Ally has a lot 
to prove, it seems.
FEAT DIE: 
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Believe Alluring Courage Artefact
2 Bolster Cheery Duty Artwork
3 Defend Gentle Fellow ship Illumination
4 Forgive Good Hope Plants
5 Resist Kind Love Shelter
6 Strengthen Wondrous Peace Treasure
FEAT DIE: 
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Abandon Corrupted Curse Darkness
2 Attack Cruel Despair Ruin
3 Betray Deceptive Enemy Blood
4 Corrupt Fell Fear Bones
5 Defeat Despoiled Shadow Corpse
6 Weaken Treacherous War Trap
FEAT DIE: 1
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Aid Abandoned Ally Archive
2 Ambush Adorned Border Armament
3 Arrive Ancient Burden Barricade
4 Await Blocked Community Battlefield
5 Breach Bold Council Bridge
6 Break Broken Court Cave- in
FEAT DIE: 2
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Capture Cheerless Death Chill
2 Change Colossal Decay Container
3 Chase Concealed Defence Creature
4 Command Dangerous Doubt Dead- end
5 Control Dead Dream Debris
6 Craft Defended Fate Doorway
TRUST YOUR GUT
You needn’t roll on the Telling table each time 
you ask a question. Oftentimes, the answer will 
be obvious to you, based on the narrative thus far 
and the context of the question. The Telling table 
is a tool for when you earnestly don’t know, when 
you can’t decide, or when the possibilities of each 
present equal opportunities for fun.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 213 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
209
FEAT DIE: 3
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Defy Destroyed Folk Dust
2 Deliver Dreadful Followers Echoes
3 Demand Fierce Fortune Encampment
4 Discover Flourishing Greed Enchantment
5 Disguise Foreboding Haven Excavation
6 Endure Forgotten Health Fire
FEAT DIE: 4
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Escape Forsaken History Fissure
2 Evade Fragile Honour Fortification
3 Explore Ghastly Ill- fortune Gate
4 Fortify Gloomy Journey Ghost
5 Gather Grand Kin Heat
6 Guard Haunted Knowledge Heights
FEAT DIE: 5
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Guide Hidden Land Hideaway
2 Hide Impenetrable Leader Illusion
3 Hinder Imposing Legend Inscription
4 Hoard Inspiring Life Lair
5 Hold Isolated Memory Machinery
6 Hunt Lost Message Mist
FEAT DIE: 6
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Lead Menacing Gift Monument
2 Learn Mighty Nature Nest
3 Leave Mysterious Pain Opening
4 Lose Noble Patron Person
5 Mourn Old Peril Pillar
6 Move Ominous Plan Pit
FEAT DIE: 7
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Persist Open Power Provisions
2 Preserve Peaceful Prophecy Puzzle
3 Prevent Precious Quest Rubbish
4 Reclaim Restored Refuge Runes
5 Reject Rugged Riddle Scratches
6 Remove Secretive Rumour Silence
FEAT DIE: 8
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Replenish Simple Secret Smoke
2 Restore Small Skill Sound
3 Scheme Stout Song Stairs
4 Search Stricken Story Stench
5 Seize Stubborn Strength Stone
6 Share Swift Survival Tomb
FEAT DIE: 9
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Slay Towering Threat Tool
2 Steal Tricky Time Trail
3 Summon Twisted Trust Vault
4 Surrender Unfathomable Truth Viewpoint
5 Surround Unnatural Vengeance Vision
6 Threaten Unstable Wealth Voice
FEAT DIE: 10
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS FEATURE
1 Transform Veiled Weapon Wall
2 Travel Vigorous Wish Warren
3 Trick Weary Wound Water
4 Uncover Wild Safety Whispers
5 Uphold Wretched Scar Wind
6 Withstand Young Magic Wood
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 214 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
210
Fortune and  
Ill- fortune Tables
When you are taking action, and want to give the challenge 
additional focus in a dramatic moment, use a result that 
includes the Gandalf Rune  or Eye of Sauron icon  to 
represent circumstances and events beyond the control of 
your Player- hero.
 ♦ Rolling the  rune means a successful action was bol-
stered by fortune, such as unexpected aid, advanta-
geous terrain, or a foe’s folly. To help inspire a ran-
dom result, roll on the Fortune table.
 ♦ Rolling a failure with the  icon means a failure was 
complicated by ill- fortune, such as a broken weapon, 
difficult terrain, or enemy reinforcements. To help 
inspire a random result, roll on the Ill- fortune table.
Many situations in these solo rules or in The One Ring  core 
rules will have a predefined result for an  or . These 
tables are not meant to combine with those results. Use them 
in dramatic moments when your fortunes and ill- fortunes are 
open to interpretation.
FORTUNE
FEAT DIE RESULT
The Eye of the Enemy focuses elsewhere. 
Decrease Eye Awareness by 1.
1 You may bypass a threat without attracting 
notice
2 You gain favour with an Ally
3 An enemy inadvertently reveals their position
4 You gain favoured ground
5 Enemies run afoul of danger
6 You locate or learn of a useful item
7 Your success instills new hope or renewed 
resolve
FEAT DIE RESULT
8 You find a moment of comfort or safety
9 You learn or realise something which gives 
helpful insight into your mission
10 You encounter an opportunity suited to your 
nature or abilities
An Ally reveals an unexpected strength or skill
ILL-  FORTUNE
FEAT DIE RESULT
Your actions catch the Eye of the Enemy. 
Increase Eye Awareness by 2.
1 You draw unwanted attention
2 Your actions are observed by someone of 
ill- intent
3 Unexpected enemies emerge or are sighted
4 You are hindered by difficult terrain or an unfa -
vourable environment
5 You find yourself ill- equipped for the 
circumstances
6 A favoured weapon or item is lost, broken, or 
sacrificed
7 You are plagued by troubling visions or 
thoughts
8 An old injury or stress resurfaces
9 You learn or realise something which adds a 
new complication to your mission
10 You face a test which is contrary to your nature 
or abilities
An Ally becomes a hindrance or liability
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 215 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
211
Special Success Table
When a successful action also produces one or more Elvish 
symbols  on your Success dice, this is a superior result (see 
page 18 of The One Ring core rules). Unlike the whims of for-
tune and ill- fortune indicated by a  rune or  icon on the 
Feat dice, this outcome can be interpreted as a direct result 
of preparedness and skills.
You can specify what your superior result means by ‘spend-
ing’ your rolled icons to trigger a number of special results 
using the Special Success table. The table from page 19 of The 
One Ring core rules is duplicated below for ease of reference. 
Choose one of the options listed for each  rolled.
The ‘Cancel a Failure’ option is only relevant for co- op 
play with another Player- hero.
This table is not used in situations where the benefit of a 
superior result is already described, such as when making a 
Clash roll in a Battle ( page 215), or when using a Cultural 
Virtue that provides specific benefits for  icons. If a result 
for a  is already detailed by other rules or a character ability, 
use that instead of the Special Success table.
SKILL SPECIAL SUCCESS
SPEND 1 SUCCESS ICON TO… DESCRIPTION
Cancel a Failure If a Skill roll involves multiple players, you help another Player- hero who failed; the failed roll is 
considered a success.
Score 1 Additional Success If an action requires multiple successes to be achieved, you score 1 additional success.
Gain Insight You gain additional information, not necessarily related to the task at hand. For example, while 
helping a sick individual with a HEALING  roll you discover the trace of poison. Or you spot a 
 sentry while sneaking into a ruin with a roll of STEALTH .
Go quietly You achieve your goal noiselessly or without otherwise attracting attention.
Make haste You complete the attempted task in a shorter time (about half the expected time).
Widen Influence You can influence more than the specific number of subjects originally targeted by the action. As a 
general rule, each Success icon spent corresponds to one additional subject or group of subjects. 
For example, following a roll of INSIGHT , you spot a second person acting suspiciously at an inn; 
a roll of ENHEARTEN  aimed to affect half a dozen individuals allows you to influence a full dozen.
Milestones
In The One Ring , Experience point rewards and Fellow ship 
point refreshes are earned at the end of your gameplay ses -
sions. If this works for the format of your solo campaign ses -
sions, there’s no need to adjust. But one advantage of solo 
gaming is flexibility — your sessions might last for a few min -
utes or a few hours, which can make session- based rewards 
disconnected from events and achievements in your story.
If you prefer to earn these rewards untethered from 
the structure of specific sessions, you can instead mark the 
growth of your character and the bolstering of your fellow -
ship through Milestones.
EXPERIENCE MILESTONES
Experience milestones are key events, experiences, and 
accomplishments for your hero. When you achieve an expe-
rience milestone shown in the table below, gain the listed 
amount of Skill points or Adventure points. Experience points 
are spent on training and growth during the Fellow ship Phase 
(see page 119 of The One Ring core rules).
EXPERIENCE MILESTONES
MILESTONE REWARD
Reclaim a new Safe Haven 
within Moria
3 Adventure Points 
and 3 Skill Points
Achieve a mission or quest 2 Adventure Points 
and 2 Skill Points
Achieve a notable personal goal 1 Adventure Point 
and 1 Skill Point
Retrieve a notable treasure 1 Adventure Point 
and 1 Skill Point
Reach or reveal a significant location 1 Adventure Point
Survive a dangerous battle 1 Adventure Point
Face a Revelation Episode 1 Adventure Point
Defeat a notable foe 1 Skill Point
Overcome a tricky obstacle 1 Skill Point
Face a Noteworthy Encounter 
during a journey
1 Skill point
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 216 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
212
If more than one milestone applies to a scene or challenge, 
select only one. For example, if you defeat a band of Orcs as 
part of a Noteworthy Encounter, you could take the milestone 
from either a Noteworthy Encounter or Survive a dangerous 
battle, but not both.
FELLOW SHIP MILESTONES
Your Fellow ship points represent the shared bonds of your 
Player- hero, your Band, the community of Dwarves among 
Balin’s expedition — and your connection to other folk of 
Middle- earth.
In group play, your Fellow ship points fully refresh at 
the end of every session. For unstructured solo play, you 
can instead trigger a refresh when you achieve a Fellow-
ship milestone. This can include an important experience 
shared with others, a significant moment of personal inter -
action, or a demonstration of loyalty or sacrifice. Some 
suggestions:
 ♦ Participate in a Council
 ♦ Put yourself at risk for the sake of another character
 ♦ Prove your loyalty to another character
 ♦ Deepen your understanding of another character
 ♦ Take part in a friendly encounter
 ♦ Share the experience of looking upon a wonder of 
Middle- earth
 ♦ Partake in communal songs or stories
 ♦ Celebrate a great victory
 ♦ Memorialise a tragic loss
In short, any meaningful moment with others is an opportu-
nity to strengthen your kinship and refresh your Fellow ship 
points. If your Fellow ship pool is exhausted in the midst of a 
mission, give a member of your Band some focus, taking the 
time as both player and character to learn more about them.
Make these scenes relatively rare and give them due atten-
tion. A milestone about every two hours of play is about right.
Battles
What prowls the darkness beyond the Bridge of Khazad- dûm? 
For many centuries, the glorious kingdom of Durin the Death-
less has been host to Goblins, Trolls, and viler things still. 
You and your Band will undoubtedly encounter these foes in 
your journeys through the long dark — and in those times, 
trust the comrades at your shoulder as you do the steel in 
your hand.
This section offers rules for leading your Band in pitched 
Battles against the denizens of Moria. These alternatives to 
the standard The One Ring combat rules help speed up play 
for a solo player, support larger- scale conflicts, and put the 
focus on the exploits of you and your Band.
Aspects of a Battle
CLASHES
A Battle is organised into rounds of Clashes. Each Clash 
encompasses a chaotic frenzy of attacks, manoeuvres, and 
parries among your Allies and enemies.
The heart of each Clash, the point at which you might 
turn the tide or face grievous setbacks, is the Clash roll. 
This roll resolves the efforts of you and your Band for that 
round against the attacks and defences of your enemies. 
The Clash sequence and Clash roll are described starting 
on page 215 .
OBJECTIVES
When battling enemies in the darkness of Moria, the Band 
may find itself fighting on multiple fronts or holding off ene-
mies while struggling to complete a task. Those risky tasks 
are Battle objectives.
An objective might be a heavy door that must be forced 
open, a wall that must be scaled, a prisoner to be rescued, or 
an item that must be recovered.
Objectives can represent your ultimate goal in this Bat -
tle — the reason you set yourself against these foes — or an 
opportunity or obstacle that arises in the midst of the fight. 
If an Ally is grievously injured and falls in the midst of the 
battlefield, getting them out of harm’s way becomes a new 
objective. If you find a Battle turning against you and seek to 
withdraw, then escape becomes your sole objective.
Battle objectives are given a resistance: 3 (simple), 6 
(laborious), 9 (daunting), or 12 (overwhelming). Suc -
cesses gained in the Clash roll can be applied to reduc-
ing this resistance. When an objective’s resistance falls 
to zero, you and the Band have achieved that goal.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 217 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
213
Some objectives serve as obstacles that must be overcome 
before you can reasonably engage your foes. For example, 
crossing a wide bridge to engage an entrenched group of 
archers. If an obstacle stands in your way, make it an objec -
tive and do not apply successes to any other endeavour until 
the objective is overcome by reducing its resistance to zero.
On the other hand, if nothing prevents you from taking 
an objective — such as when you entirely defeat the foes who 
stood in the way — that objective is automatically claimed.
ADVANTAGES
Advantages provide your Band with an edge in the fight. You 
can gain an advantage at the start of the battle by successfully 
positioning your Band, and secure new advantages in the 
midst of the fight by outmanoeuvring the enemy.
Each advantage allows you to gain (1d) on the Clash roll.
Advantages are either temporary or persistent. A temporary 
advantage is used only once. A persistent advantage remains 
for as long as the Band is successful on their Clash roll — if 
they fail that roll, any advantages are lost.
When you gain an advantage, make note of it and give it 
a descriptive name, such as High Ground or Shaken Foes.
COMPLICATIONS
Complications are advantages gained by your foes or inher -
ent aspects of the battlefield that do not favour your Band.
Each complication causes you to lose (1d) on the Clash roll.
As with advantages, complications are either temporary or 
persistent. A temporary complication affects your Band’s next 
Clash roll. A persistent complication lasts from one Clash to 
the next — it is only undone when you spend a success from 
the Clash roll to overcome that complication.
When you suffer a complication, make note of it and give 
it a descriptive name, such as Broken Ranks or Toppled Pillar.
Encountering 
Fearsome Foes
Myriad creatures prowl the long dark, fiercely protecting 
their borders from all who dare tread their territory. Balin’s 
expedition has alerted many such foes to the renewed Dwar-
ven presence in Moria — some hunt the Dwarves with a 
vile hunger, while others slink deeper into the dark, lying 
in ambush.
WAR PARTIES
A War Party is a group of foes, denizens of Moria ranging 
from patrols of Goblin scouts to hordes of Orcs, barbarous 
Trolls, and viler enemies still.
These enemy groups use simplified characteristics to 
speed play and allow for large- scale fights. They have only 
two stats in a Battle: Might and Resistance. The usual char -
acteristics, Combat proficiencies, and Fell Abilities of your 
adversaries are entirely abstracted within these simpler stats.
 ♦ MIGHT:  Represents the overall power and combat 
prowess of the War Party
 ♦ RESISTANCE:  Represent the numbers and fortitude of 
the War Party
The War Party Stats table provides the Might and Resistance 
for various scales of a War Party. You can quickly set the stats 
for your foes by choosing a scale. If you aren’t sure, roll a Feat 
Die on this table to randomly determine their scale.
If you lead a large Band, you are likely to draw the 
attention of larger and more powerful forces, making 
a roll on the War Party Stats table Ill- favoured. If you 
lead a small Band, make it Favoured.
Adjust the stats as appropriate to how you imagine your foes. 
For example, if it is a large force of undisciplined foes, con -
sider giving them the Resistance of a Warband to represent 
their numbers, but the Might of a pack to represent their 
relative lack of fighting prowess and power.
WAR PARTY STATS
FEAT DIE SCALE MIGHT RESISTANCE
Horde 3 12
1–4 Warband 2 9
5–10 Pack 1 6
Patrol 0 3
ARCHFOES
An Archfoe is a powerful enemy combatant or commander 
accompanying a War Party, such as an Orc- chieftain leading 
a warband, or a Cave- troll set loose by its handlers. The pres-
ence of an Archfoe bolsters the forces of darkness and harries 
the Band’s efforts to claim victory.
An Archfoe adds to a War Party’s Might and Resistance, 
according to the table below. In addition, the presence of an Arch-
foe in the Battle causes you to lose (1d) on each of the Clash rolls.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 218 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
214
To randomly determine the presence of an Archfoe, roll 
a Success die on this table.
ARCHFOE MODIFIERS
SUCCESS DIE ARCHFOE MIGHT RESISTANCE
1–3 No Archfoe — —
4–5 Lesser Archfoe (+0) (+1)
6 Greater Archfoe (+1) (+3)
When an Archfoe is present, lose (1d)  on Clash rolls.
The effects of an Archfoe persist until the Band achieves vic-
tory in the overall battle, or when the Archfoe is defeated in 
a direct confrontation with your Player- hero.
If an Archfoe is present, choose an appropriate Adversary 
from the descriptions in the core rules or other The One Ring 
supplements. If your Player- hero faces an Archfoe head- on, 
you will play out the fight with the standard The One Ring  
combat rules using the adversary’s full characteristics. See 
page 217 for details.
Beginning the Battle
Now that the enemy forces are arrayed against your Band, it’s 
time to set the Battle in motion.
SET YOUR OBJECTIVE
If you and your Band are seeking some goal in this Battle — 
other than simply defeating your foes — make that goal an 
objective and give it a resistance from the table below.
BATTLE OBJECTIVE
OBJECTIVE RATING RESISTANCE
Simple 3
Laborious 6
Daunting 9
Overwhelming 12
If this Battle is straightforward, one force clashing with 
another, don’t give it an objective — although one might 
arise in the course of the battle. On the other hand, if you 
are seeking to simply flee the Battle, unwilling to risk the lives 
of your Allies, then escape is your objective.
VISUALISE THE FIELD OF BATTLE
To set your opportunities and challenges in this battle, envi -
sion one or more broad characteristics of the battlefield. For 
inspiration, roll on the Battlefield Aspect table (below) or use 
the Random Chamber Generator (page 44).
Make note of any advantages or complications that come 
into play due to aspects of the battlefield or the nature of 
the encounter.
BATTLEFIELD ASPECT
FEAT DIE FEATURES
Barbed and wicked fortifications
1 Cramped passages and chambers
2 Paths leading to high ground
3 Expansive hall with soaring pillars
4 Fissured or fractured terrain
5 Concealing smoke or steam
6 Bridge over a chasm or pit
7 Running rivers
8 Improvised barricades
9 Endless stairs
10 Mine shafts and heavy equipment
Sun- lit space
GET IN POSITION
As the Battle is joined, decide if you successfully array your 
forces for the start of the fight, or are outmanoeuvred by 
your enemies.
First, consider what triggered the Battle. Was your Band 
surprised, having failed a roll such as VIGILANCE  to catch 
sight of lurking foes? Did you successfully set up an ambush 
by MANOEUVRING  stealthily into position, or use your Band’s 
EXPERTISE  to prepare fortifications? Make the roll Favoured 
or Ill- favoured if one side has a clear advantage.
Make a BATTLE  roll to ready your Band for the fight. 
If your Band is caught unprepared, make it Ill- favoured. 
If you are forewarned and in a strong position, make 
it Favoured.
If the roll succeeds, gain (1d) as a temporary advantage (upper 
hand) on your first Clash roll, or a persistent advantage with a 
. If it fails, lose (1d) on that roll as a temporary complication 
(caught off guard). On a failure with an , it is a persistent 
complication.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 219 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
215
Clash Sequence
To represent the combined efforts of you and your Band, and 
the actions of your enemy, Battles are organised into rounds 
of Clashes. A Clash encompasses a chaotic frenzy of attacks, 
manoeuvres, and defences.
Each Clash is resolved through the following steps.
1. Select Your Leader Focus
2. Set the Band’s stance
3. Make a Clash roll
4. Resolve the Clash
1
SELECT YOUR LEADER FOCUS
Choose a single action for your Player- hero from 
the options below. This is your focus for the Clash.
If playing co- op (adventuring with another Player- hero) 
only one player chooses a leader focus for each Clash. The 
other manages the Band’s stance and Clash roll. These roles 
may swap from one Clash to the next.
Note: Advantages and complications for the Battle do not 
modify your leader focus rolls — only the Clash roll.
COMMAND:  You lead your allies, seize tactical advantages, 
and overcome complications.
 ♦ Roll BATTLE
 ♦ If successful, you gain (1d) on this Clash roll, plus 1d 
for every success icon.
 ♦ If the roll fails, suffer a temporary complication: Chaos 
in the Ranks.
INSPIRE:  You bolster your Allies with rousing words and 
inspiring actions.
 ♦ Roll ENHEARTEN
 ♦ If successful, the Band is Inspired until you next fail a 
Clash roll.
 ♦ With one or more success icons, the Band also ignores 
Weary and Miserable effects until you next fail a Clash roll.
 ♦ If the roll fails, gain 1 Shadow point.
FIGHT:  You lose yourself in the chaos of the Battle.
 ♦ Roll an appropriate Combat Proficiency for an equipped 
weapon, modified by the enemy group’s Might (TN + Might).
 ♦ If successful, reduce the foe’s Resistance by 1 point.
 ♦ With one or more success icons, also create an opening or 
opportunity for your Band and gain (1d) on this Clash roll.
 ♦ If the roll fails, roll two Success dice, add them together, 
and decrease your Player- hero’s Endurance by that amount.
DUEL:  You face off against an Archfoe.
 ♦ Your attention is focused on that fight. See page 217 
for details.
2
SET THE BAND’S STANCE
Decide the tactics for your Band for this Clash, 
choosing from the options below.
AGGRESSIVE:  The Band presses their advantages and assails 
their foes, heedless of defence.
 ♦ The Clash roll is Ill- favoured.
 ♦ When making the Clash roll, immediately reduce the 
Resistance of a foe or objective by 1 point — no matter 
the outcome.
BALANCED:  The Band fights with careful tactics, giving due 
attention to both attack and defence.
 ♦ No effect.
GUARDED:  The band falls back or forms a defensive line, 
focused on the safety of their fellows.
 ♦ The Clash roll is Favoured.
 ♦ Success icons on the Clash roll are ignored.
FLEEING:  The Band’s only intent is to retreat from this fight.
 ♦ Make the Clash roll using MANOEUVRE  (instead of 
WAR).
 ♦ Success icons on the Clash roll are ignored, except 
when applied to an objective to escape the battle.
3
MAKE A CLASH ROLL
Rather than using multiple rolls for the actions of 
your Allies and enemies, you make a single Clash 
roll each round. This roll represents the efforts of your Band 
— supported by you — against the strength of your foes. It is 
the summation of many mighty blows, desperate parries, and 
whistling arrows. Imagine the Clash as a frenetic, dramatic 
scene, with your choices influencing the focus of the action.
Before rolling, consider your intent for this phase of the 
fight, and what strategies and manoeuvres your Allies under-
take. With a success on the Clash roll, you can transform that 
intent into action.
To resolve the Clash, Make a WAR roll (or MANOEUVRE  
if Fleeing), modified by your foe’s Might (TN + Might).
Apply any advantages and complications for the Battle to this 
roll, along with any bonus dice gained as part of the leader 
focus. If an Archfoe is present, lose (1d).
You can apply an Ally’s Gift as a bonus to this roll. If 
you do, that Ally should be at the forefront of the action as 
you visualise the scene, and is the most exposed if the Band 
faces a cost.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 220 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
216
4
RESOLVE THE CLASH
Set the result of the Clash round by applying suc -
cesses or determining the nature of a failure.
SUCCESS:  You gain 1 success to spend using the Clash Success 
table. Each Success icon on the Clash roll provides 1 addi -
tional success. If your Band’s efforts were divided, you may 
allocate the successes across multiple actions.
FAILURE:  You must make an Endurance Test for the Band 
(page 203). In addition, any persistent advantages are lost.
FAILURE WITH AN : If the Clash roll is a failure with a 
 icon, you also face a setback. Make the Endurance Test, 
and then roll on the Clash Setback table to reveal an addi -
tional consequence.
CLASH SUCCESS
ACTION DETAILS
Attack Reduce a foe’s Resistance by 1 point for 
each spent success.
Move towards 
an objective
Reduce an objective’s Resistance by 1 
point for each spent success.
Overcome a 
complication
Spend 1 success to remove a persistent 
complication.
Gain an 
advantage
Spend 1 success to gain a temporary 
advantage (1d). Spend 2 successes to 
make this (1d) advantage persistent.
Harry the 
Archfoe
Only select this option if your Player- hero 
is duelling an Archfoe. You gain (1d)  for 
each spent success. Each of these bonus 
dice can be applied once to a roll in that 
confrontation, and must be used before 
the next Clash round.
CLASH SETBACK
FEAT DIE DETAILS
Baneful strike. Make an Ill- favoured Endurance Test. If that roll fails, the roll on the Injury Severity table is also 
Ill- favoured.
1 An Ally is targeted or stumbles into trouble. Add a persistent complication: Ally in Danger . If you fail to remove this 
complication in the next Clash roll, the Ally is harmed; make an Ill- favoured roll on the Injury Severity table ( page 203 ).
2 Your Player- hero is targeted with an unexpected attack. Make a successful AWARENESS  roll, or receive a Wound.
3 The terrain fractures or favours the enemy. Make a successful MANOEUVRE  roll to reposition, or make an Endurance 
Test and add a persistent complication: Difficult Ground .
4 Your foes gain ground or outflank you. Add a persistent complication: Outmanoeuvred .
5 Smoke or shadow obscures your foes. Add a persistent complication: Enduring Darkness .
6 You are cut- off from your Allies. For the next Leader Focus, your roll is Ill- favoured. If you are in the midst of a Duel, 
take no benefits from the Clash roll.
7 Fell presence. Your foes intimidate or frighten. Gain 2 Shadow points (dread), and add a persistent complication: 
Hateful Foes .
8 Escape is blocked. For the duration of the Battle, when you set your stance to Fleeing, the Clash roll is Ill- favoured. 
If you roll this result again, add a persistent complication: They Are Too Many .
9 Reinforcements appear. Increase your foe’s Resistance by 3
10 An Archfoe appears. If an Archfoe is already present, they rampage through your Band, and you lose (2d)  on the 
next Clash roll instead of (1d).
Your Band falters. Make a successful RALLY  roll, or add a persistent complication: Failing Morale .
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 221 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
217
Duels
When you choose the Duelling focus and set yourself against 
an Archfoe, you take on a new perspective in the battle. The 
fight is resolved using the standard The One Ring combat rules, 
making full use of your equipment and abilities — and that 
of your enemy.
ARCHFOE STATS
When Duelling an Archfoe, use the stats, combat proficiencies, 
and fell abilities as detailed in its full description.
MOVING BETWEEN DUELS AND CLASHES
Your duel occurs in a different timescale than the overall 
battle. Once engaged with an Archfoe, you will fight several 
rounds before returning to the Clash to see how your Allies 
are faring.
When fighting a personal opponent in the midst of 
a larger- scale battle, play out three Close Quarters 
Rounds. Then pause the fight, resolve the next Clash, 
and return to your duel thereafter.
As long as you remain in the fight with the Archfoe, choose 
Duel as your leadership focus for the Clash. Then, after the 
Clash is resolved, play out another three Close Quarters 
Rounds in the duel. Imagine the chaos still raging in the 
background, slightly out of focus.
You can use a physical Success die as a timer for the next 
Clash, counting down from three.
STANCES AND COMBAT TASKS
Once embroiled in a duel, set your stances as normal. If you 
are acting aggressively, put yourself in a Forward Stance. If 
you take a balanced approach, choose the Open stance. If 
you fight conservatively, take the Defensive Stance. If you 
are in a position to attack the Archfoe from afar, use the 
Rearward stance.
The normal considerations of stances and comparing the 
number of enemies to the number in the Company do not 
apply to a solo player. Instead, you should choose only from 
the stances that are justifiable in the current situation. If you 
are embroiled in a Close Quarters duel and can’t reason -
ably fall back to pelt your Archfoe with arrows, do not take 
a Rearward stance.
In addition, not all Combat Tasks are available to the solo 
player. Since your Band is not considered a Company, you 
cannot select the Rally Comrades (Open Stance) and Protect 
Companion (Defensive Stance) Combat Tasks.
If you are using the Strider Mode supplement in your 
Moria campaign, you can also use the Skirmish Stance and 
Gain Ground Combat Task as described in that supplement.
GAINING SUPPORT FROM YOUR BAND
If you gain one or more successes on the Clash roll, you can 
spend those successes to send your Allies against your Archfoe.
As noted in the Clash Success table (previous page), each 
success spent to aid your fight against the Archfoe provides 
a (1d) bonus die to use within the scope of the duel. Each 
bonus die can be spent as follows.
 ♦ Gain (1d) on a skill roll or combat proficiency roll
 ♦ Or, roll and add the value of a Success die to the dam-
age inflicted on a successful attack roll
If you gain multiple bonus dice, they can be spent on a single 
roll, or divided among rolls. However, all bonus dice must be 
used before the next Clash begins. Any unused dice are lost.
ADVANTAGES AND 
COMPLICATIONS IN A DUEL
The complications and advantages in the larger battle are 
not necessarily a factor in your personal duel with an Arch -
foe. However, if an important aspect of the battlefield or sit -
uation carries over, use it to modify your rolls as appropriate.
Apart from that, the solo player must decide whether their 
Player- hero and their adversaries fight with advantages or 
complications.
Sometimes it’s clear based on the environment and the 
circumstances of the battle — the Player- hero fights in knee- 
deep water or unleashes arrows over a great distance. Roll -
ing a  rune or  icon can also serve as a trigger for a 
complication or advantage to make a Duel more complex 
and interesting.
ADVERSARY ACTIONS
When resolving a Clash, the actions of the enemy are folded 
into the result of the Clash roll. However, when dealing with 
an Archfoe, you are operating from the focused perspective 
of the standard The One Ring  combat sequence. The back-  
and- forth of the fight is given more detail, and includes the 
CO-  OP DUELS
If playing co- op with another player, both Player-  
heroes can take part in the Duel. Manage the fight 
as you would a normal combat encounter in The 
One Ring .
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 222 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
218
choices and actions of your enemy. Thus, you find yourself 
in the unique position of controlling both your Player- hero 
and the Archfoe who stands against you.
Consider these suggestions when determining the actions 
of your enemy:
WEAPONS:  Your Archfoe uses the weapon best suited to the 
situation, depending on the stance of the Player- hero. If mul-
tiple weapons apply, the adversary uses that which gives them 
the biggest advantage or greatest chance of dealing damage.
SPECIAL DAMAGE:  When spending  icons to trigger special 
damage from an adversary, use the Heavy Blow special dam -
age result unless the adversary lists a special damage option 
in its stat block.
FELL ABILITIES:  If using an adversary’s Fell Ability would 
give them a clear advantage in combat, they use it, spending 
any Resolve/Hate required. If the ability would come at a 
cost, you can ask the Telling table ( page 207) to determine 
the enemy’s behaviour.
Other Actions in Battle
The larger- scale perspective of a Battle will generally cover 
the actions of you and your enemies. You can incorporate 
objectives, advantages, and complications to help depict the 
ebb and flow of the fight and individual exploits.
However, if a risky and complex action doesn’t fit in the 
framework of a Clash or Duel, you can make a skill roll for 
your Player- hero or a Disposition roll for your Band to resolve 
the task. Apply the success or consequences of this roll to the 
scene, and move back to the larger fight.
The End of the Battle
If your foe’s Resistance is reduced to zero, you are victorious. 
Depending on the nature of your foe, the characteristics of 
the battlefield, and your intent, this may mean the enemy 
combatants are killed outright, or that the survivors break 
and flee. If in doubt, ask the Telling table (page 207).
The Battle is also over if your Band successfully flees. How-
ever, you should consider how pursuing or aware foes might 
complicate your mission.
If the Battle goes against your Band, you might be moved 
to surrender. Note, however, that servants of the Enemy do not 
generally give quarter, unless under orders to take prisoners.
Finally, the Battle is done if you and your Band are killed 
or otherwise incapacitated. The long dark of Moria has 
claimed more Dwarven souls.
FIGHTING LONE FOES
The Battle rules are intended for pitched fights 
involving your Band and a group of foes. If you face 
a singular foe that is powerful enough to take on 
you and your Band single- handedly, you can give 
that enemy an appropriately intimidating Might 
and Resistance, and Battle as normal. Or you can 
use the guidelines for Duels to play out the combat 
with a focus on your Player- hero. If you treat it as a 
Duel, make a Clash roll every three rounds to see 
how your Band contributes to the fight.
Lone minor foes pose little risk to your Band. 
To quickly resolve a minor fight without making it 
a full- fledged battle, make a single WAR  roll. On 
a success, the foe is defeated. With a failure the 
foe is defeated, but you suffer a cost such as an 
Endurance Test.
PERSONAL COMBAT
When leading a Band, most combat encounters for 
your Player- hero occur amid the larger context of 
a Clash, or as a duel against an Archfoe. But you 
may find yourself in situations that force you to 
play out personal combat in detail, such as when 
away from your Band. Use these guidelines for 
Player- hero stances and adversary actions when -
ever your Player- hero fights using the standard 
The One Ring  combat rules.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 223 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
219
Councils
Councils represent social events of considerable import, often 
involving discussion of vital events or tense negotiations.
There are rare opportunities for Councils within the 
depths of Moria, but you may find the need to make entreat-
ies to Balin or other leaders between missions. As a valued 
member of the expedition, you have a voice in these Councils.
Councils for a solo player are resolved as described in The 
One Ring core rules (page 104), with some further guidelines 
detailed below.
SETTING RESISTANCE
As with The One Ring core rules, you begin a council by setting 
the resistance, based on your Player- hero’s intended goal in 
the interaction — 3 for a reasonable request, 6 for a bold 
request, or 9 for an outrageous request.
If you’re not sure what resistance your goal entails, choose 
two of the options, make one of them likely, and roll on the 
Telling table (page 207) to see if the answer is “yes” for the 
likely option. If not, it is the other.
GAINING AID FROM YOUR BAND
As the appointed leader of your Band, you will take the lead 
in Council interactions. But if a member of your Band has a 
relevant gift, you can apply that bonus to your efforts.
ROLEPLAYING INTERACTIONS
As a solo player, it might feel strange or unintuitive to role -
play with yourself. But it’s important that your councils do 
not devolve into a series of dice rolls. Think through the dis-
cussions happening — the different motivations at play, and 
the disagreements that might arise.
When you have a specific question about a character’s 
response during a Council, you can ask the Telling table 
(page 207) for a “yes” or “no” response. If you have a more 
general question about the nature of a topic or response, 
use the Lore table (page 208) and envision what the answer 
means in the context of the characters and conversation.
Journeys
Moria, despite its revered place in Dwarven history, is a place 
unknown to many. In the hands of the Shadow for centuries, 
it is a treacherous and unfamiliar site, far from the kingdom 
of light and warmth it once was. Journeys into the long dark, 
to map its roads and reclaim its chambers, are imperative to 
Balin’s effort to retake the kingdom.
For a solo Player- hero, these journeys offer an opportunity 
to explore the depths of Moria, face uncertainties and danger, 
and put your abilities to the test. The structure of journeys in 
The One Ring is perfect for the solo player, because they tend 
to introduce encounters and obstacles organically.
Journeys within Moria for a solo player are resolved as 
described in The One Ring core rules (page 108) and within 
this supplement (page page 34) — with a few changes as 
described in this section.
WHEN TO USE THE JOURNEY RULES
As described in The One Ring core rules (page 108), the rules 
for journey resolution should be used when travelling through 
dangerous territory. If there is enough uncertainty or danger 
to warrant a skill test, but the journey is not worthy of the full 
journey rules, you can see how you fare with a TRAVEL  roll. 
This approach is particularly useful when returning to your 
Safe Haven along a relatively short, secure path (page 223).
Most expeditions within Moria are inherently dangerous 
and uncertain. However, for mundane travel within safe terri-
tory, the fate of your journey can be resolved without any rolls.
SETTING OFF INTO THE UNKNOWN
When playing The One Ring as part of a Company with a Lore-
master, you would normally have limited knowledge of your 
destination and what lies along your path. As a solo player, 
you must balance the information needed to manage the 
journey with the viewpoint of your character.
To imagine your wanderings within Moria, use the tools 
this supplement provides for Lore masters, including the map 
of Moria, random tables, and landmark information. In addi-
tion, you can rely on the Telling table (page 207), Lore table 
(page 208), and other tables provided in these solo rules to 
help bridge the gap between your knowledge as a character 
and that which a Lore master would normally provide.
At the start of the campaign, as both you and your Player- 
hero are newly arrived in Moria, you will rely on Lore master 
tools without letting that information impact decisions from 
the perspective of your character. Once your Player- hero is 
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 224 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
220
well- travelled and experienced, a veteran of several missions, 
there will be more overlap for the information needed to 
manage the journey with your character’s knowledge.
SETTING THE DISTANCE
If you are journeying to a specific destination using the map 
of Moria, follow the procedure described on page 36  to 
calculate the distance. 
If you are conducting a mission in a more abstract fashion, 
using journey events and tables to help detail the path to your 
destination, you can set the distance using a random method. 
Roll two Success dice, add them together, and multiply that 
value by 4. For example, 2 plus 3 equals 5, multiplied by 4 is 
20 miles. This distance reflects the twists and turns, backtrack-
ing, and changing of levels inherent to journeys within Moria.
JOURNEY ROLES
Journey roles are not used for the solo player. Instead, your 
Player- hero is the leader and guide of the expedition, and your 
Allies help set the pace — for better or worse. You still roll for 
Journey Events (page 37), but those events are keyed directly 
to skills (for you) or Dispositions (for the Band) instead of roles.
For the Player- hero, skills used during Journey Events are 
EXPLORE , AWARENESS , and CRAFT . If the Band is a target of a 
Journey Event, you roll MANOEUVRE , VIGILANCE , or EXPER -
TISE . See page 192 for details.
Marching Tests
Use the process described below to resolve Marching Tests 
when your lone Player- hero is accompanied by a Band of Allies.
1. Make a MANOEUVRE  roll for the Band. This deter-
mines the Band’s ability to maintain the pace and fol-
low your lead. If the roll is successful, gain (1d) on your 
MORIA SOLO JOURNEY EVENTS
FEAT DIE 
ROLL EVENT CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL OR DISPOSITION ROLL 
FATIGUE POINTS 
GAINED
Deadly Dark If the roll fails, the target is Wounded, and Eye Awareness increases by 1. 3
1–2 The Long Dark 
of Moria
If the roll fails, gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). 2
3–5 Watchful Eyes If the roll fails, the target gains 1 Shadow point (Dread), and Eye Awareness 
increases by 1.
2
6–9 Endlessly Branching 
Stairs and Passages
If the roll fails, add 1 day to the length of the journey, and the target gains 1 
additional Fatigue. In addition, regardless of whether the roll is successful or 
not, roll on the Random Chamber Generator ( page 44).
2
10 The Right Way If the roll succeeds, do not gain fatigue, and reduce the length of the 
 journey by 1 day.
1
Dread and Wonder 
of Moria
If the roll fails, the target gains 1 Shadow point (Dread). If the roll succeeds, 
the Player- hero and Band regain 1 Hope instead.
—
TRAVEL  roll, plus another (1d) for each Success icon. 
If the roll fails, lose (1d) on your TRAVEL  roll.
2. Make the TRAVEL  roll for your Player- hero, applying the 
bonus or penalty dice from your Band’s roll. With a suc-
cess, you travel 6 miles, plus 2 additional miles for each 
success icon. On a failure, you advance only 2 miles.
3. Resolve the Journey Event
Solo Journey Events
Follow the steps for Journey Event resolution as described on 
page 112 of The One Ring core rules. Since you don’t assign 
roles, the target for an event is either your Player- hero or the 
Band. Choose as appropriate to the nature of the event, or 
leave it in the hands of fate by rolling a Success die. Let an 
odd result be your Band, and an even result your Player- hero.
Roll on the Solo Journey Events table to determine the 
event type. The table below is slightly modified from the ver-
sion on page 37 . By default, journeys within Moria are 
within a Dark Land, and this roll is Ill- favoured — unless you 
have secured a foothold (page 224).
Once the event type is determined, choose one of the fol-
lowing options to help envision the nature of the event and 
the challenge or opportunity your character faces.
 ♦ Based on the result of the Journey Events table, imag-
ine an incident or opportunity in a way that fits the 
current situation and surroundings. Then, make a test 
using an appropriate Skill or Disposition: EXPLORE , 
AWARENESS , or CRAFT  for the Player- hero, or 
MANOEUVRE , VIGILANCE , or EXPERTISE  for the Band 
or a specific Ally. Check the Solo Journey Events table 
for the consequences of this skill roll.
 ♦ Reveal the nature of the event using an Event Detail 
table (see below).
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 225 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
221
EVENT DETAIL
To help envision the nature of an event, use an Event Detail 
table to expand on the information provided by the Solo 
Journey Events table.
First, select the appropriate table for the type of event, 
and check your result by rolling one Success Die. To speed 
things along, you can roll this Success Die alongside your Feat 
Die when first rolling on the Journey Events table.
Take a moment to envision the nature of the incident or 
opportunity using the Event Detail prompt. If you need more 
information, you can use the Telling table ( page 207) or 
Lore table (page 208) to answer questions about the event.
If the Band is the target for this event, consider which 
Ally is taking the lead in this situation. That Ally might have 
a useful Gift.
Once you have imagined the event and the action taken 
in response, make the indicated Skill roll (if your character 
is the target), or a Disposition roll (if the Band is the target).
Finally, resolve the scene using the consequence and 
Fatigue Points gained or lost as shown in each Event Detail 
table. Your Player- hero gains that amount of Fatigue points, 
and your Band must make a Fatigue test modified by those 
Fatigue points (page 204).
EVENT DETAIL: DEADLY DARK
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Sudden 
ambush
Noteworthy Encounter
2 Smoke and 
flame
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to avoid 
blistering heat
3 Goblin 
arrow slits
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to spot hidden 
alcoves
4 Crumbling 
ruins
EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to escape 
the chaos
5 Lurking 
assassin
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to be 
forewarned of the attack
6 Noxious 
air
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to detect the 
poisonous fumes
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, the tar -
get is Wounded, and Eye Awareness increases by 1.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  3
EVENT DETAIL: THE LONG DARK OF MORIA
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Dark- dwelling 
foes
Noteworthy Encounter
2 Endless 
ruination
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to gain a 
glimpse of former glories
3 Deepening 
shadows
EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to find 
your way through
4 Oppressive 
silence
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to 
remain focused
5 Fallen kin CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to lay them 
to rest
6 Drums in the 
Deep
EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to nav -
igate away from the burgeoning 
threat
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, gain 2 
Shadow points (Dread).
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
EVENT DETAIL: WATCHFUL EYES
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Swarming 
creatures
EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to avoid 
their ire
2 Lone scout AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to silence 
the sentry
3 They are 
coming
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to build a barri -
cade or seal the passage
4 Nameless 
fear
EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to outrun 
the lurking presence
5 Pits and 
tripwires
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to steer 
clear of Orc- laid hazards
6 Graven 
image
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to tear it down
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, the 
target gains 1 Shadow point (Dread), and Eye Awareness 
increases by 1.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 226 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
222
EVENT DETAIL:  
ENDLESSLY BRANCHING STAIRS AND PASSAGES
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Madden -
ing roads
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to keep 
your wits
2 Flooded 
passage
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to make or find 
an exit
3 Dizzying 
heights
EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to safely 
traverse
4 Unstable 
terrain
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to keep 
your footing
5 Collapsed 
tunnel
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to clear the way
6 Dead- end 
corridor
EXPLORE  (or EXPERTISE ) to retrace 
steps
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, add 
1 day to the length of the journey, and the target gains 
1 additional Fatigue. In addition, regardless of whether 
the roll is successful or not, roll on the Random Chamber 
 Generator ( page 44).
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
EVENT DETAIL: THE RIGHT WAY
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Familiar 
waypoint
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to understand 
its significance
2 Unspoiled 
chambers
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to walk 
unbroken roads
3 Plunging 
watercourse
EXPLORE  (or EXPERTISE ) to navigate 
its currents
4 Glimmer 
in the dark
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to illuminate 
the way
5 Well- trod 
path
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to keep 
to the trail
6 Fellow 
delvers
Noteworthy Encounter
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll succeeds, 
do not gain fatigue, and reduce the length of the journey 
by 1 day.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  1
EVENT DETAIL: CHANCE MEETING
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Kingly hall EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to map 
its confines
2 Buried secrets AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to 
spot among the rubble
3 Ancient 
mechanism
CRAFT  (or EXPERTISE ) to restore 
its function
4 Monuments to 
ancient glories
EXPLORE  (or MANOEUVRE ) to 
reveal their former grandeur
5 Echoes of for -
gotten lives
AWARENESS  (or VIGILANCE ) to 
find their mementos
6 Remote 
outpost
Noteworthy Encounter
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, the tar -
get gains 1 Shadow point (Dread). If the roll succeeds, the 
Player- hero and Band regain 1 Hope instead.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  —
NOTEWORTHY ENCOUNTERS
A Noteworthy Encounter result on an Event Detail table indi-
cates an event that should not be resolved with a single skill 
roll. Instead, give this event additional focus by treating it as an 
extended encounter or scene. This scene might incorporate 
skill rolls, combat, council, or a Skill Endeavour as appropriate.
You can also choose to translate any of the detailed event 
results into a Noteworthy Encounter instead of using a sin -
gle skill test. In this way, you give a specific challenge or 
MAKING JOURNEYS COME ALIVE
For a solo player, there may be a tendency to move 
through the journey sequence without giving 
focus to the ongoing narrative. Avoid this by tak -
ing the time to plan your navigation as your char -
acter would, with the limited information available 
to them. Then, after each marching test or event, 
imagine the details of the adventure. How do your 
Allies fare? What is the nature of the path? What do 
you see or encounter? Where do you rest and how 
do those surroundings inspire you or put you on 
edge? Use tools such as the Telling table and the 
descriptions of Moria environs in this supplement 
to help inspire your imaginings of this ancient place.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 227 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
223
opportunity more focus if it is interesting to you or especially 
relevant to your Player- hero or their quests. Overcoming a 
significant challenge as part of a Noteworthy Event can then 
provide experience as a Player- hero milestone (page 211).
RESOLVING EVENTS  
FOR A NOTEWORTHY ENCOUNTER
For a noteworthy encounter that is not decided using a single 
skill roll, you still need to determine the overall outcome when 
applying the consequences for your Journey Event. To do so, 
decide if the event was ultimately favourable for your character.
 ♦ If you managed to overcome a challenge or had an 
overall positive event, treat it as a successful skill roll.
 ♦ If you failed to overcome a challenge, or faced severe 
hardships or complications, use the failed result.
Returning to  
Your Safe Haven
If the nature of your Mission in Moria is a round trip — reach-
ing a landmark or destination, completing a mission, and 
returning to the Safe Haven — it may not be worth playing 
out the return journey in detail.
If the path is through areas you’ve already explored and is 
a reasonable distance from your Safe Haven, you can quickly 
resolve the return journey with a single Travel test. On a suc-
cessful roll, you arrive without incident. If the roll fails, intro-
duce a Journey Event. Once the event is resolved, continue 
safely to your destination.
If the path back to your Safe Haven is overlong, fraught 
with dangers, or is simply an aspect of the adventure that you 
want to explore in detail, use the full journey rules.
Fellow ship Phase
In the Fellow ship Phase, your Player- hero and their Band of 
Allies return to Balin’s camp in the First Hall to rest, recu -
perate, and undertake downtime activities — healing, com -
muning with Balin and other members of the expedition, 
and preparing for the next journey into the Dwarrowdelf.
The structure of the Fellow ship Phase is largely unchanged 
for the solo player, with some exceptions and additions as 
noted below.
SETTING THE DURATION
Within Moria, darkness is always at your doorstep. Unfor -
tunately for the harried Dwarves of Balin’s expedition, the 
time spent in fellowship is time given over to the minions of 
Shadow. Delays will turn the advantage to your foes, lower -
ing the Hunt Threshold ( page 201) when you next set off 
on a mission. But these delays might be necessary to rest and 
recuperate from the hardships of your mission.
When playing a solo campaign, choose the duration of 
your Fellow ship Phase and the associated recoveries and activ-
ities according to the summaries below. These guidelines sim-
plify timekeeping and bookkeeping for Player- hero Wounds 
and Band conditions.
Yule festivities went unobserved by the members of Balin’s 
expedition. The critical nature of the mission and the press-
ing dangers of Moria did not allow the time and comfort of a 
return home. A Yule Fellow ship Phase is not possible.
HURRIED (HOURS):  You must set off on an urgent mission, 
leaving little time for rest or fellowship.
 ♦ Recover all Player- hero Endurance
 ♦ Clear any fleeting or moderate injuries among your Allies
 ♦ There is no time for Undertakings
BRIEF (DAYS):  You take time to rest and recuperate, but do 
not linger.
 ♦ Recover Hope points equal to Player- hero HEART  score
 ♦ Remove 1–3 Shadow points (see page 225).
 ♦ Recover all Player- hero Endurance
 ♦ Clear any fleeting or moderate injuries among your Allies
 ♦ Clear fatigued and faltering conditions among your 
Allies
 ♦ Recover any Wasted Gifts 
 ♦ Heal Player- hero Wound, unless you suffered a Dying 
Wound
 ♦ You may perform one undertaking
EXTENDED (WEEKS):  You push away the darkness, taking 
time to fully recover.
 ♦ Recover all Hope points
 ♦ Remove 1–3 Shadow points (see page 225).
 ♦ Recover all Player- hero Endurance
 ♦ Recover any Wasted Gifts 
 ♦ Heal Player- hero Wound
 ♦ Clear all injury and fatigue conditions among your Allies
 ♦ You may perform two undertakings
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 228 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
224
Fellow ship Interruptions
The Shadow was always at Balin’s doorstep during their expe-
dition, and there is a chance that a Brief or Extended Fellow-
ship Phase is interrupted by a crisis or unfortunate event.
After you have recovered and performed character 
updates — but before you pursue any undertakings — roll a 
Feat Die. If the Fellow ship Phase duration is Extended, make 
this roll Ill-favoured. If your roll reveals an , a Fellow ship 
Phase Interruption occurs. 
This incident may introduce the need to play out a scene 
as you attempt to help resolve the crisis, or may simply cut 
your respite short. In either case, you must sacrifice one 
undertaking for the lost time.
Use the table below to inspire the nature of this event. In 
the first year of the expedition, make this roll favoured. Start-
ing in year four, make it Ill-favoured. Alternatively — instead of 
rolling — you can use the table as a checklist of Interruption 
events, starting at the top.
FELLOWSHIP PHASE INTERRUPTION
FEAT DIE EVENT
Orcs attack in force!
1 Madness among Balin’s folk
2 Orcs test your defences
3 Drums in the deep
4 Supplies run short
5 Saboteurs or assassins strike
6 Orcs encamp nearby
7 Strife among Balin’s folk
8 Collapsing or unstable environs
9 Squabbles among your Band
10 Goblin spies skulking about
Dark dreams plague your rest
Improving Allies
Your goal as a leader among Balin’s expedition is to eventually 
assemble an entire Band of proven Allies. While performing 
updates for your Player- hero during a Fellow ship Phase, you 
can choose to award one surviving Ally with Hardened status. 
Pick an Ally who demonstrated exceptional skill, bravery, or 
loyalty during your most recent Mission, and note them as 
Hardened on their Ally card.
The presence of Hardened Allies boosts your Readi -
ness for a mission as outlined on page 200.
Only award Hardened status at the conclusion of challenging 
missions and for worthy deeds. Optionally, you can also give 
a Hardened Ally a title celebrating a deed or quality, and add 
that to their name on their Ally Card.
KINGLY GIFTS
Marvellous Artefacts, Wondrous Items, and Famous Weap -
ons or Armour are fitting gifts for a proven Ally. If you have 
recovered such treasures in the course of your adventures, 
granting them as a Kingly Gift to a Hardened Ally is a noble 
recognition of their valour and sacrifice.
The characteristics of these rewards are not detailed as 
they would be for a Player- hero. Instead, their main quality 
is marked as a second Gift usable by that Ally. This Gift func-
tions as normal — offering a bonus Success die on related 
actions by that Ally or the Band ( page 202), and cannot be 
combined with other Gifts.
In addition, the powerful legacy of a Kingly Gift acts as a 
ward against the Shadow.
When a Kingly Gift aids an action,  you may — in addi-
tion to the standard benefits of a Gift — reroll one Feat 
die showing an . The Kingly Gift is not marked as 
Wasted if no other  are revealed on this roll.
However, Famous Weapons or Armour among your Band will 
also increase your starting Eye Awareness when setting off on 
a mission (page 201).
New Undertaking: 
Reclaim a Safe Haven
Once per year, if you previously returned from a success -
ful mission to secure a strategic location within Moria, you 
and other members of Balin’s expedition may establish that 
ROLEPLAYING 
THE FELLOWSHIP PHASE
Take the time to imagine your interactions and 
activities during the Fellow  ship Phase. For your 
Player- hero, this is a welcome opportunity to enjoy 
the camaraderie of your Band and other kinfolk. 
Much of what defines the story of your character is 
how they relate to others, and what personal goals 
they pursue with the comfort of safety and time.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 229 =====

SOLO PLAY IN MORIA
225
location as a new Safe Haven — a foothold in Balin’s quest to 
reclaim Khazad-dûm. This undertaking can only be selected 
during an extended Fellow ship Phase.
The points between the existing Safe Haven and the new 
Safe Haven are considered a Wild Land (instead of a Dark 
Land). You also gain 3 Adventure Points and 3 Skill Points 
in recognition of this milestone — as described in the Expe -
rience Milestones table (page 211). 
New Undertaking: 
Recruit Allies
As you prove your leadership, others will flock to your banner.
Choose this undertaking to expand your ranks. If your 
Band numbers fewer than four, gain Allies up to four. 
Otherwise, gain one Ally for every rank in VALOUR . 
These Allies are added to the overall roster for your 
Band, and can be selected for missions.
Spiritual Recovery 
for the Solo Player
As detailed on page 119 of The One Ring core rules, the Lore-
master would normally determine the number of Shadow 
points to remove during the Fellow ship Phase. As a solo 
player, you instead decide how many Shadow points to remove 
based on how your actions have impacted the fight against 
the encroaching Shadow.
 ♦ If your actions have at least marginally interfered with 
the return of the Shadow, recover 1 Shadow point;
 ♦ If your deeds have actively hindered or damaged the 
Enemy, remove 2 Shadow points;
 ♦ If you have committed feats that would gain the atten-
tion of the Dark Lord himself, or at least one of his 
major servants, remove 3 Shadow points
The End of All Things
“All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.”
Your missions into Moria in this solo campaign are assumed 
to occur through the beginning and heights of Balin’s five- 
year expedition, when hope seemed a tangible thing, and the 
embers of a restored Khazad- dûm took flame in the hearts 
of many Dwarves.
You can mark the end of your campaign once you success-
fully build a Band of twelve Hardened Allies and undertake 
a final great mission into the depths of Moria. There is time 
within the scope of Balin’s expedition to become a hero — 
or to fall to Shadow or death.
Balin’s Fall
Despite your efforts, and those of countless other brave 
Dwarves, the Shadow eventually repels Balin’s valiant cam -
paign, and the King of Moria and every Dwarf who accom -
panied him dies at the vile hands of Goblins. The exploits of 
your Band — their brave deeds, triumphs against the Shadow, 
and hopes for the future — are lost to time.
But perhaps the history of your Band is written in the 
crumbling pages of a journal, abandoned in those silent halls, 
waiting to be uncovered by a new expedition into Moria…
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 230 =====

Index
A
Advantages (Solo)  213
Allies (Solo)  196– 198, 200
Ancient Fire  188
Ancient Ruins  165
Angolath  109
Archfoes (Solo)  213– 214
Arcinyas the Healer  23
Armouries of the Third Deep, The  
151– 154
Ash-wraiths  63
B
Balrog of Moria, The  59– 62
Balrog’s Throne, The  170– 172
Battles (Solo)  212– 218
Black Uruk  57
Black Uruk Captain  57
Blood-vine  97
Brazen Head  185
Buna, Unlucky Treasure Hunter  99
Burden (Solo)  194, 205
C
Cave Bats  64
Cave Dogs of Moria  67
Caves of Thrym Thistlebeard, The  
96– 100
Chamber of Mazarbul, The  104– 106
Circlet of Queen Edrys  185
Citadel of Barazinbar, The  117– 121
Clash Sequence (Solo)  215– 216
Clash Setback Table (Solo)  216
Clash Success Table (Solo)  216
Complications (Solo)  213
Conditions (Solo)  194
Councils (Solo)  219
Crows of Dimrill Dale, The  74
D
Daza the Redhanded  19
Deeps, The  150– 165
Den of Forgotten Stars, The  
166– 170
Dimrill Dale  73– 85
Dimrill Door, The  77
Dimrill Stair, The  75– 78
Dispositions (Solo)  192– 193
Doors of Durin, The  147– 149
Duels (Solo)  217– 218
Durin’s Bane  60
Durin’s Bridge  89
Dwarrowdelf, The  96– 115
Dwarven Haunts  59
Dwarven Thrall  58
Dwarves of Nogrod and Belegost  
186– 188
E
East-gate of Moria, The  81– 85
Entrances by Landmark  72
Erceleb  183
Event Details (Solo)  221– 222
Experience Milestones (Solo)  211
Expertise (Solo)  192
Eye Awareness  39
Eye Awareness (Solo)  200– 201, 206
F
Fatigue Conditions (Solo)  205
Fatigue (Solo)  194, 204– 205
Fatigue Tests (Solo)  204– 205
Fellowship Milestones (Solo)  212
Fellowship Phase (Solo)  223– 225
Fellowship Undertakings  106, 177
Fellowship Undertakings (Solo)  
224– 225
First Hall, The  86– 88
Fortress of Malech, The  110– 115
Fortune Table (Solo)  210
Foundations of Stone  173– 175
Fróra, Daughter of Dwalin  17
G
Gem of the Stag  185
Ghost-Dogs of the Redhorn Pass  
119
Gifts (Solo)  193, 196– 197
Goblin Village  154– 157
Goblin Way, The  169
Gorgol, Son of Bolg  54
Gorlakh the Doorwarden  84
Granny Goblin  155
Great Carrion Bat  64
Great West Cave, The  135– 137
Grimnar the Gaoler  158
Guldi the Watcher  18
H
Hagrot the Sneak  105
Haldir of Lórien  22
Halls of the Roadwardens, The  
133– 135
Hârelig  125
Harp of the Cascades  185
Har’s Ring  123
Har, Would-be Lord of Moria  
122– 123
Hope (Solo)  205
Hornburi Whitebeard  149
Hunt Threshold  40
Hunt Threshold (Solo)  201
I
Ibin the Ring-seeker  19
Ill-fortune Table (Solo)  210
Imperishable Hall, The  138– 141
Improving Allies (Solo)  224
Imri the Traitor  113
Injuries (Solo)  194, 203– 204
Invisible Goblins  157
Iron-shod Boots  185
Ithildin  183
J
Journey Events  37
Journey Events, Redhorn Pass  119
Journey Events (Solo)  220
Journeys  36– 38
Journeys (Solo)  219– 223
K
Kingly Gifts (Solo)  224
King’s Door, The  103
King’s Hall, The  100– 103
L
Landmarks  72
Last Redoubt of the Dwarves, The  
92– 95
Ledge of Woe, The  158– 160
Lord Mjolin of Harmelt  18
Lore Table (Solo)  208– 209
Lost Citadel of the Ring-smiths, The  
141– 146
M
Magical Treasure Index  185
Malech One-eye  114– 115
Manoeuvre (Solo)  192
Marching Tests (Solo)  220
Marrow-eaters  65
Marvellous Artefacts  185
Mauler, The  152
Meru the Huntress  130
Messenger of Lugbúrz  57
Might (Solo)  213
Milestones (Solo)  211– 212
Mines, The  166– 175
Mission Objective (Solo)  199
Mithril  183– 184
Mithril Enchanted Rewards  184
Mithril-steel  183
Mocker Crawe  74– 75
Moria-madness  43
Morlena Neverrests  78
Mounds of Azanulbizar, The  79– 80
Mountain Galleries, The  122– 127
Mountains of Moria, The  116– 131
N
Naglur, Sword of Sauron  127
Naldin  21
Nál of the Iron Hills  21
Names (Solo)  198
Native Mithril  183
O
Old Moria  86– 95
Old Scratch  169
Orcs of Mordor  56– 57
Orcs of Moria  53– 54
Orcs of Udûn  54– 55
P
Padroval, the Eagle  160
Patrons  15, 18– 20, 24
Q
Quirks (Solo)  193, 197– 198
R
Rally (Solo)  192
Random Chamber Generator  
44– 48
Random Orc-band Generator  49
Readiness (Solo)  191
Redhorn Gate, The  117– 121
Red-nails  121
Reekbat  91
Resistance (Solo)  213
Revelation Episodes  40– 43
Revelation Episodes (Solo)  206
Ring of Keys, The  95
Ring of Riddles  185
Ring-wight  145
Road, The  132– 137
Rumours  25– 26
S
Scabbard of Thunder  185
Second Hall, The  88– 91
Shadow (Solo)  205– 206
Shagram, the “Merry Fellow”  167
Shared Callings (Solo)  195
Silver Dream of the Smith  185
Slag-worms  150
Slave Dwarves  58
Special Success Table (Solo)  211
Spirits of Shadow  126
Spiritual Recovery (Solo)  225
Staff of the Roadwarden  185
Stone Ghost, The  136
Stone Toads  66
Streams and Wells  35
Strider Mode (Solo)  189
Sullied Mithril  184
T
Tappers  67
Tarloch, Chieftain of the Cloudy -
head-folk  128– 129
Tarloch’s Hall  128– 131
Telchar’s Secrets  188
Telling Table (Solo)  207
Tharnow, Son of Gurnow  22
Themes  27– 31
Thilevril  183
Thrym’s Eye  98
Thu the Firespeaker  163– 164
Tig the Scavenger  80
Treasure Index (Solo)  207
Treasures (Solo)  206– 207
True Mithril  183
U
Udûn-orc Fanatic  55
Udûn-orc Fire-touched  55
Udûn-temple, The  161– 165
Uftak  112
V
Vault of Uruktharbun, The  106– 109
Vesna, Keeper of the Barrow  130
Vigilance (Solo)  193
Virtues  188
W
Wailing Horror, The  182
War-horn of the Underworld  185
War Parties (Solo)  213
War (Solo)  193
Watcher in the Water, The  175
Weary (Solo)  194
West Moria  138– 149
Wondrous Items  185
Y
Yagul the Snatcher  112
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 231 =====

readiness hopedispositions
mission roster
RATING
TN
war
vigilancerallymanoeuvre
expertise
SHADOW SCARS
SHADOW PTS
band size
conditions
notes
burden
eye  
awareness
hunt  
threshold
Small (1–4)
Light Medium
Weary
Heavy
Miserable
Overburdened
FatiguedModerateFleeting SpentGrievous FalteringSevere CollapsedLingering
Medium (5–8) Large (9–12)
allies
fatigueinjuries
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 232 =====

Fatigued
Fatigued
Fatigued
Fatigued
Moderate
Moderate
Moderate
Moderate
Fleeting
Fleeting
Fleeting
Fleeting
Spent
Spent
Spent
Spent
Grievous
Grievous
Grievous
Grievous
Faltering
Faltering
Faltering
Faltering
Severe
Severe
Severe
Severe
Collapsed
Collapsed
Collapsed
Collapsed
Lingering
Lingering
Lingering
Lingering
fatigue
fatigue
fatigue
fatigue
quirks/notes
quirks/notes
quirks/notes
quirks/notes
name/title
name/title
name/title
name/title
gift
gift
gift
gift
kingly gift
kingly gift
kingly gift
kingly gift
injuries
injuries
injuries
injuries
Hardened
Hardened
Hardened
Hardened
Wasted
Wasted
Wasted
Wasted
Wasted
Wasted
Wasted
Wasted
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 233 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 234 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)


===== PAGE 235 =====

Mike Lee (Order #42963767)

===== PAGE 236 =====

Moria, The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Lord of the Rings and the Moria, The One Ring, Middle-earth, The Lord of the Rings and the 
characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered characters, items, events and places therein are trademarks or registered 
trademarks of Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC and are used under license trademarks of Middle-earth Enterprises, LLC and are used under license 
by Sophisticated Games Ltd. and Fria Ligan AB. © 2024 Middle-earth by Sophisticated Games Ltd. and Fria Ligan AB. © 2024 Middle-earth 
Enterprises, LLC & Sophisticated Games Ltd. All rights reserved.Enterprises, LLC & Sophisticated Games Ltd. All rights reserved. 97 891897 65474
ISBN 978-91-89765-47-4
FLFTOR013
ut now, there is hope! Countless Orcs perished at the Battle of Five Armies, ut now, there is hope! Countless Orcs perished at the Battle of Five Armies, 
and it may be the Halls of Durin lie empty once more, waiting to be and it may be the Halls of Durin lie empty once more, waiting to be 
reclaimed by those with the courage to face the long dark under the reclaimed by those with the courage to face the long dark under the 
mountain. Maybe there are piles of treasure there, waiting to be claimed. mountain. Maybe there are piles of treasure there, waiting to be claimed. 
Maybe Mithril still glimmers in the mines under Caradhras. Cross the Maybe Mithril still glimmers in the mines under Caradhras. Cross the 
dread threshold, adventurer, and delve deep!dread threshold, adventurer, and delve deep!
MoriaMoria™™  — Through the Doors of Durin — Through the Doors of Durin  is a supplement for  is a supplement for The One RingThe One Ring™, the official ™, the official 
tabletop roleplaying game based on the works of J.R.R. Tolkien. Set in the years tabletop roleplaying game based on the works of J.R.R. Tolkien. Set in the years 
before Balin’s doomed expedition, this supplement contains a hoard of Patrons, before Balin’s doomed expedition, this supplement contains a hoard of Patrons, 
Landmarks, foes, encounters and treasures that a Loremaster can use to construLandmarks, foes, encounters and treasures that a Loremaster can use to constru ct ct 
their own adventures in Moria — from a single desperate journey in the dark their own adventures in Moria — from a single desperate journey in the dark to a to a 
grand campaign to retake Durin’s Halls.grand campaign to retake Durin’s Halls.
or long ages, the great city of the Dwarrowdor long ages, the great city of the Dwarrowd elelf wf wasas t thehe seat of  seat of Dwarven Dwarven 
kings. Deep they delved beneath the roots of the moukings. Deep they delved beneath the roots of the mou ntaintains in ns in search of search of 
Mithril, the fabled Moria-silver. Wonders they wrought there, Mithril, the fabled Moria-silver. Wonders they wrought there, by thby the light of e light of 
crystal lamps. But a thousand years ago, Durin’s Bane arose and drove the crystal lamps. But a thousand years ago, Durin’s Bane arose and drove the 
Dwarves from their halls. The city fell into darkness, becoming an abode Dwarves from their halls. The city fell into darkness, becoming an abode 
of Orcs, Goblins — and worse.of Orcs, Goblins — and worse.
A king he was on carven throne A king he was on carven throne 
In many-pillared halls of stone In many-pillared halls of stone 
With golden roof and silver floor With golden roof and silver floor 
And runes of powerAnd runes of power upon the door. upon the door.
No harp is wrung, no hammer falls. No harp is wrung, no hammer falls. 
The darkness dwells in Durin’s halls; The darkness dwells in Durin’s halls; 
The shadow lies upon his tomb The shadow lies upon his tomb 
In Moria, in Khazad-dûm.In Moria, in Khazad-dûm.
Mike Lee (Order #42963767)