

===== PAGE 1 =====

strider™  
mode
RULES FOR SOLO ROLEPLAYING
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 2 =====

STRIDER MODE
2
FACE THE WILDS 
ALONE
“He is one of the wandering folk — Rangers we call them. 
He seldom talks: not but what he can tell a rare tale when 
he has the mind. He disappears for a month, or a year, 
and then he pops up again. What his right name is, I’ve never 
heard: but he’s known around here as Strider.”
rom the moment we meet Aragorn in The Lord of the 
Rings, we feel drawn to his hard- bitten stoicism and 
uncanny survivability. Who is this dark, hooded fig -
ure subsisting on the edges of civilization, living in 
harmony with the shadowed wilds — and on what sorts of 
adventures does he embark?
With Strider Mode for The One Ring, players can set out on 
solo journeys in the vein of Aragorn’s missions across Middle- 
earth, facing danger and darkness with only steel, cunning, 
and hope as companions.
WHAT IS STRIDER MODE?
Strider Mode presents additional and modified rules to facil-
itate solo play in The One Ring, as well as guidelines and tips 
for solo players and a selection of random tables to help 
incite and inspire your lone wanderings across Middle- earth.
As with standard play in The One Ring, you play the game 
and interact with the world from the perspective of your char-
acter. You don’t need to talk out loud (though you can!), nor 
are you writing the equivalent of a novel (though the occa -
sional written note can help keep you on track). 
Instead, you envision the world, the figures and foes you 
encounter, and your character’s actions. The rules of The One 
Ring help resolve those actions. When you need additional 
guidance or inspiration for how the world responds to you, 
or what you encounter in your journeys across Middle- earth, 
Strider Mode steps in to lend a hand.
WHAT IS SOLO ROLEPLAYING?
Strider Mode does not require a Lore master, allowing a sin-
gle player to undertake journeys as a lone adventurer in the 
perilous world of Middle- earth.
The concept of solo pen- and- paper roleplaying originates 
with the “choose your own adventure” novels of the ‘70s and 
the random dungeon generation tables in early editions of 
popular roleplaying games.
Solo tools have since evolved beyond those experiences. 
Contemporary solo systems are designed to offer the same 
engaging narrative flexibility for a solo player as you experi-
ence in a game led by a Lore master.
Since pen- and- paper roleplaying is typically a collabora-
tive group activity, you might wonder what makes solo role-
playing worthwhile. While indeed a different experience, solo 
play can be just as fun and rewarding.
If you aren’t sold on the idea, here are some things to 
consider.
 ♦ Explore Tolkien’s world at your own pace, without 
needing to coordinate schedules with others.
 ♦ Enjoy sole control of the tone and focus of a campaign.
 ♦ More deeply explore themes and subjects intriguing 
to you.
 ♦ Put the spotlight on a specific character and focus on 
their goals, abilities, and challenges.
 ♦ If you tend to play as the Lore master, this is your 
opportunity to be a Player- hero in the world of 
Middle- earth.
If you are already participating in a game led by a Lore master, 
you can use Strider Mode to explore other aspects of Tolk -
ien’s world. Perhaps you undertake independent adventures 
with your Player- hero while the members of the Company are 
away from one another, much as Gandalf does in The Hobbit. 
Or you can experience the stories of a side- character in your 
main campaign.
Introduction
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 3 =====

IntroductIon
3
HOW IT WORKS
Strider Mode is supplementary to The One Ring — the core 
rules are required for solo play, and familiarity with those 
rules is assumed.
Though in practice Strider Mode differs little from the 
core experience of The One Ring, there are some distinctions 
that facilitate the solo experience and help drive the narra-
tive without a Lore master at the helm. This supplement pro-
vides options and tools to help guide your solo adventures 
in the Third Age.
BASIc PHILoSoPHY
When you play The One Ring in Strider Mode, you guide 
your Player- hero as they undertake a quest. Your story can 
be focused on missions assigned by a Patron, or on personal 
goals or problems which compel your character to abandon 
the comfort of home and hearth.
As a solo player, you imagine those adventures and take 
action from the perspective of your Player- hero. But you 
also interpret the consequences of those actions, introduce 
encounters, and portray other aspects of the world. You essen-
tially act as both the Player- hero and the Lore master, using 
your intuition and the tools in this supplement to retain the 
surprises, challenges, and opportunities that make roleplay-
ing as a character so rewarding.
corE StrIdEr ModE t ABLES
Three new tables presented in this supplement are key to 
playing The One Ring in Strider Mode. 
 ♦ The Telling Table (page 10) helps answer simple ques-
tions about locations, people, creatures, and events. 
Use this table when you would normally ask the Lore-
master a yes/no/maybe question like “Is there light 
in this passage?” or “Is there an herb- master in this 
village?”
 ♦ The Lore Table (page 11) helps inspire answers to 
more complex, open- ended questions or reveal new 
events and situations. Use this table when you would 
normally ask the Lore master for details about the 
world around you, such as “Who do I see coming up 
the road?” or “What do I find in the Troll’s lair?”
 ♦ The Fortune and Ill- Fortune Tables (page 8) offer 
prompts for narrative outcomes when a  rune or  
icon is rolled on your Feat die. 
This supplement also includes other tables to help resolve 
more specific situations and questions. See page 21 for the 
collected set of Strider Mode tables.
AdVEnturInG PHASE
Much like the core experience of The One Ring, the flow of 
play is broken up into various phases, chief of which is the 
Adventuring Phase. This experience differs slightly in Strider 
Mode. You can find these expanded and modified rules on 
page 15, but the main differences are as follows:
 ♦ No roles are assigned during Journeys. Instead, the 
sole Player- hero reacts to situations as they arise, test-
ing their skills against hazards and obstacles.
 ♦ An expanded Journey Events Table (page 17) provides 
a deeper and more varied experience for the solo 
player, offering just enough detail to help you envision 
the people, places, and foes in your path.
 ♦ A new combat stance — the Skirmish Stance (page 
15) — provides the lone Player- hero an opportunity 
to keep foes at a distance, staying one step ahead of 
the Shadow.
FELLoWSHIP PHASE
Little differs from the core rules in Strider Mode’s Fellowship 
Phase, during which your lone Player- hero rests, recuperates, 
and undertakes downtime activities to heal, gather rumours, 
or commune with their Patron. Guidelines for the solo player 
are provided on page 20.
COOPERATIVE PLAY  
This supplement is geared for solo play, but can 
also be used for play with two or more players in 
a small Company, without the aid of a Lore master.
When you are playing in a group without a 
Lore master, the normal conversation you would 
have with other players is expanded to include the 
details of the world you inhabit. When a question 
or situation arises which would normally be 
resolved or depicted by the Lore master, the group 
can collaborate to decide what happens, or use 
tools such as the Telling Table (page 10) and Lore 
Table (page 11) to help come up with an answer.
With cooperative play, it’s imperative that 
players share the narrative spotlight, allowing 
each participant to “take the lead” at times in envi -
sioning the world around the Player- heroes. Stray 
from allowing one player to become the de facto 
Lore master, and take turns if necessary to foster a 
collaborative experience.
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 4 =====

STRIDER MODE
4
YOUR ADVENTURER
When you begin a Strider Mode campaign, create a single 
Player- hero, much like you would in a traditional campaign 
guided by a Lore master. All Player- hero cultures and callings 
are available to you, and there are only slight considerations 
for Virtues as noted below.
When creating your solo character, consider the kinds of 
stories you want to tell, and the themes you want to explore. 
Messenger, Treasure Hunter, and Warden are callings well 
suited to the Strider Mode experience, but any calling works.
CRAFTING YOUR PLAYER- hERO
PrEVIouS EXPErIEncE
When allocating your previous experience (page 46 in The 
One Ring core rules), you have 15 points to spend, instead 
of 10. This represents your Player-  hero’s additional “grit” 
and experience afforded by their lone wanderings across 
Middle- earth.
Your SAFE HAVEn
Without a Company at your side, the safe haven is a particu-
larly important aspect of your Player- hero’s story. It’s there you 
find allies, friends, perhaps even family. Consider why your safe 
haven represents not only sanctuary for your Player- hero, but 
also home — a hearth always lit to guide you back from the wilds.
FELLoWSHIP ScorE
As a solo player, you have a Fellowship score equal to 3 plus 
any additional bonuses from Virtues, Cultural Blessings, and 
your Patron. Your Fellowship score, rather than representing 
the bonds between you and your Company, instead signifies 
your connection to the communities you serve and the wilds 
you roam — a hope that cannot be diminished by the Shadow.
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 5 =====

Your AdVEnturEr
5
FELLoWSHIP FocuS
When playing as a solo Player-  hero, you are not a member 
of a Company and do not have a Fellowship Focus. You can 
ignore this aspect of character creation.
VIrtuES
When selecting Virtues, read the description and look for any 
Company- specific benefits. Since you aren’t travelling as part 
of a Fellowship, those abilities won’t factor into your story.
Some Cultural Virtues provide benefits solely for a Com-
pany. For example, the Hobbit Virtue Three is Company offers 
an increased Fellowship score and additional Fellowship 
Focus. A solo player benefits from extra Fellowship points, 
but not necessarily an additional Fellowship Focus, so this 
virtue is not recommended in Strider Mode.
Other Virtues provide benefits for a Company, but are 
also worthwhile for a lone character. For example, the Bard-
ing Virtue Dwarf- friend provides a benefit for combat when 
your Fellowship focus is a Dwarf, which would not be use -
ful in a Strider Mode campaign. But it also improves your 
interactions with Dwarves during a council. It’s up to you to 
decide if the trade- off is worth it. Since you are a lone Player- 
hero, you don’t need to worry about balancing your abilities 
against others in a Company. Choose what best fits the nature 
of your character.
nEW dIStInctIVE FEA turE: StrIdEr
Wandering the wilds of Middle- earth alone hardens the spirit 
and sharpens the senses as you are forced to remain ever-  
watchful for perils in the periphery. Solo Player- heroes receive 
an extra Distinctive Feature: Strider. While journeying, the 
Player- hero is considered Inspired on skill rolls.
YOUR PATRON
Perhaps the most important choice for a lone Player- hero is 
their Patron. A Patron can provide the motive for an errand 
or quest, and help tether your Player- hero to the larger world. 
Introducing a Patron can serve as a great way to kick off a 
campaign for a new character, and meeting with them during 
the Fellowship Phase offers an opportunity to report on your 
progress or accept a new task.
In choosing your Patron, pay close attention to their 
Favoured Callings, as well as their Agenda — ensure both 
support your intended goals with solo games. For Player-  
heroes interested in undertaking missions against the Shadow, 
Gandalf and Gilraen present enticing options. A Player- hero 
seeking fame and lost relics might find Bilbo or Balin more 
suitable.
PAtron QuEStS
In the following tables, each starting Patron is given a set of 
quests fitting their agendas. Use these to help inspire the 
nature of a Patron- given quest as a starting adventure for your 
character, or the next goal within a continuing campaign.
To select a quest from a Patron, pick one that interests you, 
roll one 6-sided Success die for a random result, or accept 
the missions in sequence starting with the first. Envision the 
details of the task as revealed by the Patron, and consider the 
open questions posed by each. If the quest involves travel, 
identify the destination. If the destination is unknown to you 
and the patron, consider what you must do to locate your 
objective.
If you ask the Patron questions about the mission, you 
can simply imagine their answer as appropriate to the nature 
of the task, or use the Telling Table and Lore Table to help 
inspire their response. Leave room for aspects of the quest 
which are unknown to both you and your Patron.
PATRON QUESTS: BALIN, SON OF FUNDIN
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 Dark whispers plague a Dwarven territory. 
What nameless Shadow lurks in the wilds?
2 This broken artifact could be a potent weapon 
against the enemy. What is this item, and who 
wields the skill to reforge it?
3 The Dwarven ruins hold great secrets — and 
weapons against the Enemy. What is the nature 
of these ruins, and what treasures do they hold?
4 A powerful comrade has fallen in battle against 
the Enemy. Who are they, and what did they 
carry vital to our survival?
5 A Dwarven stronghold now lies with the Enemy. 
Who leads these foul creatures, and how have 
they defiled our sacred site?
6 A powerful lieutenant of the Enemy grows in 
power. Who is this shadowy figure, and how 
have they amassed followers?
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 6 =====

STRIDER MODE
6
PATRON QUESTS: BILBO BAGGINS
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 This particular delicacy is a rare treat. What is 
this precious item, and where can it be found?
2 Scout the area and make a note of significant 
landmarks to aid cartography. How has the land 
changed?
3 The roads grow dark and perilous. What vital 
missive do you carry, and to whom must it be 
delivered?
4 An ancient text confounds attempts to decipher 
it. What is the nature of this text, and who pos -
sesses the knowledge to translate it?
5 The Enemy holds a map of special significance. 
What secrets does this map hold, and why is it 
vital?
6 An artifact of great importance has resurfaced. 
What is this item, and why must we find it 
before the enemy does?
PATRON QUESTS: CIRDAN THE SHIPWRIGHT
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 Supplies wane as the Enemy draws near. What 
vital resource for the building of ships must you 
deliver?
2 An ancient enemy of the Elves has resurfaced 
and made themselves known. Who are they, 
and what grudge do they bear?
3 Hope falters in these dark days, so travel to a 
remote beacon and rekindle its flame. What 
shadowy presence seeks to prevent this?
4 Our missives fall into the hands of the Enemy. 
What fate befalls our messengers?
5 An artifact of great importance to the Elves is 
carried by a servant of the Enemy. Who is this 
creature, and why do they covet the artifact?
6 The ships of the Grey Havens are fashioned 
from sacred wood. What malady taints these 
trees?
PATRON QUESTS: GANDALF THE GREY
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 The people need hope in these dark times. 
Where is this remote settlement, and what 
good news do you bring?
2 Carry word of the Enemy’s movements to our 
trusted ally. Who is this ally, and how can they 
aid us?
3 A possible ally has made themselves known 
to us. Who is this ally, and what must we do to 
earn their trust?
4 Our vision is clouded, our path uncertain. We 
must capture a servant of the Enemy. Who are 
they, and what do they know?
5 News has reached us of a terrible weapon the 
Enemy means to bear. What is this weapon, and 
who wields it?
6 The Shadow has captured an ally. Who is this 
ally, and where are they imprisoned?
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 7 =====

Your AdVEnturEr
7
PATRON QUESTS: GILRAEN, 
DAUGHTER OF DIRHAEL
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 A Ranger has gone missing. What has become 
of them?
2 A powerful servant of the Enemy lurks nearby. 
Who are they, and why do they target our 
Rangers?
3 Enemy patrols prowl along the road, targeting 
merchants and supply wagons. Who leads these 
deadly patrols?
4 A settlement has come under the eye of the 
Shadow. Why is this place significant?
5 Monstrous servants of the Enemy encroach. 
What manner of weapon do they carry?
6 We’ve received no word from a remote Ranger 
refuge. What fate has befallen our allies?
PATRON QUESTS: TOM BOMBADIL 
AND LADY GOLDBERRY
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 Creatures of the wilds have come under a dark 
affliction. What is this sickness, and what rare 
ingredient holds the key to a cure?
2 A sacred spring runs black with some malady of 
the Shadow. What taints this source, and what 
manner of foul creature guards it?
3 A group of travellers seeks escort through the 
wilds. Who are they, and what is their vital 
mission?
4 The Shadow corrupts a sacred site. What is this 
place, and what foul presence now taints it?
5 A precious flower blooms for the first time in 
many years. What is this plant, and why is it so 
vital?
6 An ancient, sacred tree hosts a foul presence. 
What is this shadow, and can it be purged?
EXPERIENCE MILESTONES
In The One Ring, Experience Points are earned according to the 
passage of your gameplay sessions. By default, each player earns 
3 Skill points and 3 Adventure points at the end of every gaming 
session (see page 56 of The One Ring core rules). If this works 
for the format of your Strider Mode sessions, there’s no need to 
adjust these rewards. But one advantage of solo pen- and- paper 
roleplaying is flexibility — your sessions might last for a few 
minutes or a few hours, which can make session- based rewards 
disconnected from events and achievements in your story.
If you prefer to earn Skill points untethered from the 
structure of specific sessions, you can instead mark the growth 
of your character through Milestones.
Milestones are key events, experiences, and accomplish-
ments for your hero. When you achieve a milestone shown 
in the table below, gain the listed amount of Skill points or 
Adventure points.
If more than one milestone applies to a scene or chal -
lenge, select only one. For example, if you defeat a band of 
Orcs as part of a Noteworthy Encounter, you could take the 
milestone as either a Noteworthy Encounter or a dangerous 
combat, but not both. 
Experience Points are otherwise managed as per the stan-
dard The One Ring rules. Your Player- hero earns a number of 
additional Skill points equal to their WItS  rating during each 
Yule Fellowship Phase (see page 120 of The One Ring core rules). 
Experience points are spent on training and growth during the 
Fellowship Phase (see page 119 of The One Ring core rules).
EXPERIENCE MILESTONES
MILESTONE REWARD
Accept a mission from a patron 1 Adventure Point
Achieve a notable personal goal 1 Adventure Point 
and 1 Skill Point
Complete a patron’s mission 1 Adventure Point 
and 1 Skill Point
Complete a meaningful journey 2 Skill Points
Face a Noteworthy Encounter during 
a journey
1 Skill Point
Reveal a significant location or 
discovery
1 Adventure Point
Overcome a tricky obstacle 1 Skill point
Participate in a Council 1 Skill Point
Survive a dangerous combat 1 Adventure Point
Face a Revelation Episode 1 Adventure Point
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 8 =====

STRIDER MODE
8
THE SYSTEM
ACTION RESOLUTION
As a solo player, you must decide when rolls are necessary, 
a task that usually falls to the Lore master. It might seem 
counter intuitive to challenge your own Player- hero’s success, 
but consider that each roll of the dice in The One Ring pres-
ents equal opportunity for triumph and despair. 
Roll when risk is involved — when the possibility of fail-
ure affects the narrative. For further guidance, see “When to 
Roll” on page 16 of The One Ring core rules.
SEttInG tHE t ArGEt nuMBEr
Using the alternative presented in The One Ring core rules 
(page 18), solo players should set the Target Number (TN) 
by subtracting their Attributes from 18 instead of 20. This will 
make your Player- hero more capable and self-  reliant when 
they must face the challenges of Middle- earth alone.
rEAdInG tHE FEA t dIE
When you are taking action, and want to give the challenge 
additional focus in a dramatic moment, use a result that 
includes the Gandalf Rune  or Eye of Sauron icon  to 
represent circumstances and events beyond the control of 
your Player- hero.
 ♦ Rolling the  rune means a successful action was 
bolstered by fortune, such as unexpected aid, advan-
tageous terrain, or a foe’s folly. To help inspire a ran-
dom result, roll on the Fortune Table.
 ♦ Rolling a failure with the  icon means a failure was 
complicated by ill- fortune, such as a broken weapon, 
difficult terrain, or enemy reinforcements. To help 
inspire a random result, roll on the Ill- Fortune Table.
Keep in mind that you’re free to gloss over a  or  result. 
Just consider the nature of the success or failure in the con-
text of the situation, and move on. For worthy challenges and 
key actions, the Fortune and Ill- Fortune tables can help reveal 
new complications, twists, and unexpected boons.
FORTUNE TABLE 
FEAT DIE RESULT
The Eye of the Enemy focuses elsewhere. 
Decrease Eye Awareness by 1.
1 You may bypass a threat without attracting 
notice
2 You gain the attention of a potential ally
3 An enemy inadvertently reveals their position
4 You gain favoured ground
5 Enemies run afoul of danger
6 You locate or learn of a useful item
7 Your success instils new hope or renewed 
resolve
8 You find a moment of comfort or safety
9 You learn or realize something which gives 
helpful insight into your mission
10 You encounter an opportunity suited to your 
nature or abilities
An unexpected ally appears or sends aid
ILL-  FORTUNE TABLE
FEAT DIE RESULT
Your actions catch the Eye of the Enemy. 
Increase Eye Awareness by 2.
1 You draw unwanted attention
2 Your actions are observed by someone of 
ill- intent
3 Unexpected enemies emerge or are sighted
4 You are hindered by difficult terrain or an unfa-
vourable environment
5 You find yourself ill- equipped for the 
circumstances
6 A favoured weapon or item is lost, broken, or 
sacrificed
7 You are plagued by troubling visions or 
thoughts
8 An old injury or stress resurfaces
9 You learn or realize something which adds a 
new complication to your mission
10 You face a test which is contrary to your nature 
or abilities
An ally becomes a hindrance or liability
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 9 =====

tHE SYStEM
9
SPEcIAL SuccESS In StrIdEr ModE
When a successful action also produces one or more Elvish 
symbols  on your Success Dice, this is a superior result (see 
page 18 of The One Ring core rules). Unlike the whims of for-
tune and ill- fortune indicated by a  rune or  icon on the 
Feat Dice, this outcome can be interpreted as a direct result 
of your character’s preparedness and skills.
If you want to detail the nature and benefits of a superior 
result for solo play, you can use the table above, which is an 
alternative to the Special Success table on page 19 of The 
One Ring core rules. As with that version of the table, you can 
specify what your superior result means by ‘spending’ your 
rolled icons to trigger a number of special results. Choose 
one of the options listed for each  rolled.
In combat,  icons are instead used to trigger special 
results based on the war gear of the attacker (see page 99 of 
The One Ring core rulebook). Also, some Cultural Virtues pro-
vide specific benefits for  icons. If a result for a  is already 
detailed by other rules or a character ability, use that instead 
of the Special Success table.
uSInG rISK LEVELS
For Strider Mode, it is recommended to use Risk Levels (page 
131 of The One Ring core rulebook) when visualizing and resolv-
ing a risky action. This will add more variety to the outcome 
of a failed action and aid you in resolving the consequences.
Most actions you take should be at a Standard Risk Level. 
This is the default unless you decide the situation warrants 
otherwise before making a roll. If appropriate to the cir -
cumstances, and if it aids in moving your story forward, you 
can choose to trade failure on a Standard action for success 
marred by a negative occurrence.
Risk Levels can help manage the intensity of your adven-
tures. As dangers and failures mount up, increase the Risk 
Level to make the situation more perilous. 
The three Risk Levels and the consequences of a failed 
outcome for each are summarized in the table below.
If you are ever unsure about the Risk Level of a challenge, 
use the Telling Table (see next page). Ask the Telling Table 
“is this a Standard Risk Level?”, making the result “likely”. If 
the answer is “no”, make it Hazardous. If the answer is “no” 
with an  icon, make it Foolish.
SKILL SPECIAL SUCCESS TABLE
SPEND 1 SUCCESS 
ICON TO… DESCRIPTION
Gain Insight You gain additional information, not necessarily related to the task at hand. For example, while helping a 
sick individual with a HEALING  roll you discover the trace of poison. Or you spot a sentry while sneaking 
into a ruin with a roll of STEALTH .
Go quietly You achieve your goal noiselessly or without otherwise attracting attention.
Make haste You complete the attempted task in a shorter time (about half the expected time).
Widen Influence You can influence more than the specific number of subjects originally targeted by the action. As a 
general rule, each Success icon spent corresponds to one additional subject or group of subjects. For 
example, following a roll of INSIGHT , you spot a second person acting suspiciously at an inn; a roll of 
ENHEARTEN  aimed to affect half a dozen individuals allows you to influence a full dozen.
Build advantage You carry forward your success to improve your position or confidence for a related task; gain (1d) on your 
next skill roll.
Cancel a Failure If playing co- op with other players, you help another Player- hero who failed within the scope of the same 
skill roll; the failed roll is considered a success.
RISK LEVELS
RISK LEVEL THE FAILED ROLL RESULTS IN… EXAMPLES
Standard Simple Failure,  
OR Success with Woe
Eluding the watch of a Bounder in the Shire, entertaining a crowd of inebriated 
patrons at an inn, climbing a tall tree.
Hazardous Failure with Woe Stealing mushrooms from a farm guarded by ferocious dogs, climbing atop a 
crumbling tower, or trying to swim the waters of a swift- running river.
Foolish Disaster! Picking the pockets of a hungry Troll, playing a riddle game with a Dragon, or 
bandying words with an angry Wizard.
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 10 =====

STRIDER MODE
10
THE TELLING TABLE
One of the most useful and versatile tools at a solo player’s 
disposal is the Telling Table. Use the Telling Table when pos-
ing questions answerable by “yes” or “no.” This table helps 
resolve questions normally answered by a Lore master, reveal-
ing details of the world and the intent or actions of other char-
acters. If you are asking a question with results favourable and 
unfavourable (from the perspective of your character), ask it 
in such a way that “yes” is the positive outcome.
After posing your question, set the chance of a “yes” using 
the range shown in the Telling Table: certain, likely, middling, 
doubtful, or unthinkable. If unsure, make it middling. Then, 
roll one 12-sided Feat die to learn the answer.
 ♦ Ask your question, with “yes” being the positive 
outcome.
 ♦ Set the chance (with “middling” as the default).
 ♦ Roll one Feat die and consult the Telling Table for 
your answer.
Note also that rolling either the  rune or  icon results in 
an automatic yes or no, respectively, with an extreme result 
or twist.
TELLING TABLE
CHANCE
ROLL A FEAT DIE.  
THE ANSWER IS YES  IF YOU ROLL...
Certain 1 or greater
Likely 4 or greater
Middling 6 or greater
Doubtful 8 or greater
Unthinkable 10
 : Always yes, with an extreme result or twist
  : Always no, with an extreme result or twist
For example, your Player- hero wanders into a roadside inn 
and you wonder if they recognize anyone from previous vis-
its — a friendly face would be a welcome sight after these 
long days in the wilds. You ask, “Do I see anyone I know?” 
You set the chance to doubtful and roll.
You roll a , which according to the Telling Table is 
“always yes, with an extreme result or twist.” You determine, 
perhaps with help from the Lore Table (page 11), that your 
Player- hero does see a friendly face: a friend they thought lost 
to the Shadow, who yet now sits alive and well in this inn.
TRUST YOUR GUT 
You needn’t roll on the Telling Table and/or Lore 
Table each time you ask a question during your 
solo play. Oftentimes, the answer will be obvious 
to you, based on the narrative thus far, the context 
of the question, the nature of your Player- hero and 
the Middle- earth they inhabit. The Telling Table is 
a tool for when you earnestly don’t know, when 
you can’t decide, or when the possibilities of yes, 
no, or something in between each present equal 
opportunities for fun.
When in doubt, even with tools like the Telling 
Table and Lore Table at your disposal, trust your 
gut — oftentimes your first instinct is the right one.
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 11 =====

tHE SYStEM
11
FEAT DIE: 
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Abandon Corrupted Curse
2 Attack Cruel Despair
3 Betray Deceptive Enemy
4 Corrupt Fell Fear
5 Defeat Ruined Shadow
6 Weaken Treacherous War
FEAT DIE: 
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Believe Flourishing Courage
2 Bolster Beautiful Duty
3 Defend Good Fellowship
4 Forgive Kind Hope
5 Resist Gentle Love
6 Strengthen Wondrous Peace
FEAT DIE: 1
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Aid Active Battle
2 Arrive Ancient Border
3 Await Bold Burden
4 Breach Bright Council
5 Break Broken Court
6 Capture Cheerless Creature
FEAT DIE: 2
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Change Cold Darkness
2 Chase Concealed Death
3 Command Dangerous Defence
4 Control Dark Depths
5 Create Dead Doubt
6 Defy Defended Dreams
THE LORE TABLE
Use the Lore Table to help reveal details when asking an 
open- ended question about a situation or event. The table 
includes three columns: Action, Aspect, and Focus. You can 
roll on one column for a single word prompt, or two or 
more to construct a prompt phrase. The Lore Table is par -
ticularly useful for generating patron quests, or determin-
ing Distinctive Features for characters encountered on your 
journeys.
To roll on the table, use one 12-sided Feat die to deter -
mine the section, and one six- sided Success die for the row.
The Lore Table can answer questions such as:
 ♦ “What is the nature of these woods?” (Aspect)
 ♦ “What mission does my patron have for me?” (Action, 
Aspect, Focus)
 ♦ “What do I find within the ruins?” (Aspect, Focus)
Depending on the situation, the result might be taken liter -
ally, or interpreted as an abstraction. Part of the fun of solo 
roleplaying is deciding how these enigmatic riddles relate to 
your current situation. If a result doesn’t fit or is hard to inter-
pret within the context of the current situation, roll again or 
check adjacent rows for your answer.
For example, your Player- hero enters a roadside inn and recog-
nizes among the patronage a friend they thought dead. Roll-
ing on the Lore Table to determine the Player- hero’s connection 
to the person, you roll an Action of “Break” and a Focus of 
“Fellowship.” You decide that the Player- hero once travelled 
with this person in a Company, and together fought many 
battles and journeyed many leagues — but also that this per-
son’s disappearance led to the fracturing of your Fellowship.
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 12 =====

STRIDER MODE
12
FEAT DIE: 3
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Demand Desolate Fate
2 Discover Destroyed Fire
3 Disguise Dreadful Folk
4 Endure Empty Followers
5 Escape Evil Greed
6 Evade Faded Haven
FEAT DIE: 4
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Explore Far- reaching History
2 Find Fierce Honour
3 Focus Foreboding Journey
4 Gather Forgotten Kindred
5 Guard Fragile Knowledge
6 Guide Ghastly Land
FEAT DIE: 5
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Hide Gloomy Leader
2 Hinder Growing Legend
3 Hoard Hidden Life
4 Hold Ill- fated Light
5 Hunt Impenetrable Luck
6 Journey inspiring Memory
FEAT DIE: 6
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Lead Isolated Message
2 Learn Lofty Might
3 Leave Lost Nature
4 Lose Menacing Pain
5 Mourn Mighty Path
6 Move Mysterious Patron
FEAT DIE: 7
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Persist Noble Peril
2 Preserve Obstructed Plan
3 Prevent Old Power
4 Refuse Ominous Prophecy
5 Reject Open Quest
6 Remove Peaceful Refuge
FEAT DIE: 8
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Replenish Restored Riddle
2 Restore Sheltered Ruins
3 Scheme Silent Rumour
4 Search Simple Secret
5 Seize Small Skill
6 Share Sombre Song
FEAT DIE: 9
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Slay Stony Story
2 Steal Stout Strength
3 Summon Stricken Time
4 Surrender Stubborn Tool
5 Surround Twisted Treasure
6 Threaten Unnatural Trust
FEAT DIE: 10
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Transform Veiled Truth
2 Trap Vigorous Vengeance
3 Trick Weary Wealth
4 Uncover Wild Weapon
5 Uphold Wretched Wilds
6 Withstand Young Wish
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 13 =====

tHE SYStEM
13
THE EYE OF MORDOR
A lone Player- hero draws less attention than a full Company, 
but may still catch the Eye of the Enemy. Use the optional 
Eye Awareness score as described on pages 169–171 of The 
One Ring rulebook to track your visibility to the Enemy and 
the actions of dark forces in Middle- earth. 
Although these rules are optional, they are recommended 
for use with Strider Mode as a means of making the campaign 
more dynamic and reinforcing the Enemy and the minions 
of Shadow as ever- present and cunning threats.
St ArtInG EYE AWArEnESS
Calculate your starting Eye Awareness score as described on 
page 170 of The One Ring  core rulebook. Start with an Eye 
Awareness of 0, and adjust as follows.
 ♦ Add 1 if you have a VALour  rating of 4 or more
 ♦ Add 1 if you are a Dwarf
 ♦ Add 2 if you are an Elf or Dúnedain
 ♦ Add 3 if you are a High Elf 
 ♦ Add 1 for each Famous Weapon and Armour you carry
IncrEASInG EYE AWArEnESS
Use the guidelines detailed on pages 170–171 of The One Ring 
core rulebook, as described below.
 ♦ Whenever a die roll made outside of combat produces 
an  icon, regardless of whether the roll resulted in 
success or failure, raise Eye Awareness by 1 point 
 ♦ Whenever the Player- hero gains 1 more shadow points 
outside of combat, increase the Eye Awareness level by 
that amount
 ♦ Magical successes using a marvellous artefact or won-
drous item might increase Eye Awareness, as per the 
guidelines on page 171 of The One Ring core rulebook.
Also, an  result on the Ill-  Fortune Table (page 8) will 
raise the Eye Awareness Score by 2. This is in addition to the 
increase from the initial  result which triggered a roll on 
that table. The Eye is fixed upon you!
rESEttInG EYE AWArEnESS
The Eye Awareness score does not increase during a Fellow-
ship phase. At the beginning of the following Adventure 
phase, reset the score to its starting value.
Hunt tHrESHoLd
The Hunt threshold for a lone Player- hero is the same as that 
for a Company, as described on page 172 of The One Ring core 
rulebook. Use the Region Table and Hunt Modifiers Table 
to set the threshold. 
HUNT THRESHOLD REGION TABLE
THE REGION TRAVERSED IS A… HUNT THRESHOLD
Border Land 18
Wild Land 16
Dark Land 14
HUNT MODIFIERS TABLE
HUNT 
MODIFIER DESCRIPTION
+4 The Player- hero is protected by the blessing 
of a Wizard, or another powerful character
+2 The Player- hero is travelling under a false 
name, treading paths that are seldom trod-
den, or otherwise taking actions to be discreet 
and unobtrusive
−2 The Player- hero has gained great renown in 
the area thanks to some exceptional deed
−4 The Enemy is actively looking for the Player-  
hero, or their mission or goal is known to 
them
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 14 =====

STRIDER MODE
14
rEVELA tIon EPISodES
When your Eye Awareness matches or exceeds the current 
Hunt threshold, you must face a Revelation Episode.
In Strider Mode, a Revelation Episode represents the 
influence and actions of the Enemy or other sinister or hate-
ful powers. 
To determine the nature of the episode, roll on the Reve-
lation Episode Table, choose a result from the table, or imag-
ine a threat which best represents the current situation. Some 
episodes might create an immediate danger or complication 
for your Player- hero. Others trigger dire events in the world 
which the Player- hero is (for now) unaware of, but which will 
cause future complications. If you set a Revelation Episode 
in motion outside the perception of your Player- hero, make 
note of it and consider how it may later reveal itself.
Once you have triggered a Revelation Episode, reset your 
Eye Awareness to its starting value.
REVELATION EPISODE TABLE
FEAT DIE EPISODE
Internal strife or an external threat puts your 
Safe Haven in peril
1 Unexpected danger arises on the path ahead, 
forcing you to seek a new route
2 Nature is corrupted and turns against you
3 Spies of the Enemy carry word of your mission
4 Enemy minions launch an ambush or lay a trap
5 Enemy minions pick up your trail
6 An important location is overtaken by an enemy
7 An item you carry holds a curse, or is hunted by 
an enemy
8 You are tempted by something greatly desired, 
to the detriment of your mission
9 Malicious lies cause others to mistrust or 
fear you
10 Conflict brews between allies
An important ally is put in danger
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 15 =====

AdVEnturInG PHASE
15
ADVENTURING PHASE
COMBAT
In Strider Mode, rather than facing foes shoulder- to- shoulder 
with your Company, you must stand alone against the enemy. 
Strider Mode offers some tools for the solo Player- hero, 
including a new stance to give lone, bow- wielding Player-  
heroes a fighting chance.
SKIrMISH St AncE
Combat in Strider Mode operates much the same as in 
The One Ring core rules, with a number of opening volleys 
(depending on the distance between combatants) preced -
ing close combat.
But for Player- heroes who prefer bows and thrown weap-
ons, the Skirmish stance allows a solo Player- hero to fight “on 
the move,” exchanging ranged attacks while seeking advan-
tageous positions from which to strike.
SKIrMISH St AncE (rAnGEd coMBA t)
You fight on the move, navigating the terrain and exchanging 
volleys with pursuing or fleeing foes.
 ♦ You can only attack your adversaries using ranged 
weapons. Adversaries that attack you with melee weap-
ons lose (1d), while those who attack you with ranged 
weapons suffer no penalty.
 ♦ For ranged attack rolls, you lose (1d).
 ♦ To escape from combat, roll for your ranged attack 
(without losing (1d) on the roll). If you succeed, you 
do not inflict any damage but instead leave the battle-
field — otherwise you remain engaged.
 ♦ Combat Task: Gain Ground
GAIn Ground —  SKIrMISH St AncE
Combatants on the move can attempt to gain an advantageous 
position against their foes, ambushing enemies or firing from 
an overlook. To do so, the acting player makes an AtHLEtIcS  
or ScAn  roll as the main action for the round.
On a successful roll, the attacker gains (1d) on their next 
ranged attack, plus another (1d) for each Success icon  
rolled. These bonus dice can be used on a ranged attack 
roll to escape from combat (see Skirmish Stance).
coMPLIcA tIonS And AdVAnt AGES
Without a Lore master, the solo player must decide whether 
their Player- hero and any adversaries fight with complica -
tions or advantages.
Sometimes it’s clear based on the environment and the 
circumstances of the battle — the Player- hero fights in knee- 
deep water or unleashes arrows over a great distance. Roll -
ing a  rune or  icon can also serve as a trigger for a 
complication or advantage to make a fight more complex 
and interesting.
AdVErSAr Y ActIonS
In Strider Mode, the solo player finds themselves in the 
unique position of controlling both their Player- hero and 
the adversaries in their path.
In combat, an adversary uses the weapon best suited to 
the situation, depending on the stance of the Player- hero. If 
multiple weapons apply, the adversary uses the one which 
gives them the biggest advantage or greatest chance of deal-
ing damage.
SPEcIAL dAMAGE
When spending  icons to trigger special damage from an 
adversary, use the Heavy Blow special damage result unless 
the adversary lists a special damage option in its stat block.
FELL ABILItIES
If using an adversary’s Fell Ability would give them a clear 
advantage in combat, they use it, spending any Resolve/Hate 
required. If the ability would come at a cost or pose a risk 
to the adversary or their allies, you can ask the Telling Table 
(page 10) to determine the enemy’s behaviour.
OUTNUMBERED, OUTMATCHED
The solo experience in The One Ring is often 
fraught with peril, and never is this more apparent 
than during combat. Alone, an adventurer can eas -
ily become overwhelmed by foes. Utilize tools like 
the Skirmish stance, and its associated task, Gain 
Ground, to stay on the move. And when things 
look dire, don’t hesitate to flee combat to live to 
fight another day. 
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 16 =====

STRIDER MODE
16
COUNCILS
Councils involve your Player- hero standing before important 
figures in a formal setting. They represent social events of 
considerable import, often involving discussion of vital events 
or tense negotiations.
Councils for a lone Player- hero are resolved as described 
in The One Ring core rulebook (page 104), with some further 
guidelines detailed below.
SEttInG rESISt AncE
As with The One Ring core rules, you begin a council by setting 
the resistance, based on your Player- hero’s intended goal in 
the interaction — 3 for a reasonable request, 6 for a bold 
request, or 9 for an outrageous request.
If you’re not sure what resistance your goal entails, choose 
two of the options, make one of them likely, and roll on the 
Telling Table (page 10) to see if the answer is “yes” for the 
likely option. If not, it is the other.
roLEPLAYInG IntErActIonS
As a solo player, it might feel strange or unintuitive to role -
play with yourself. But it’s important that your councils do 
not devolve into a series of dice rolls. Think through the dis-
cussions happening — the different motivations at play, and 
the disagreements that might arise.
When you have a specific question about a character’s 
response during a Council, you can ask the Telling Table 
(page 10) for a “yes” or “no” response. If you have a more 
general question about the nature of a topic or response, use 
the Lore Table (page 11) and envision what the answer 
means in the context of the characters and conversation. 
JOURNEYS
In The One Ring, journeys are a key aspect of undertaking 
quests and errands. For a solo Player- hero, these journeys 
offer an opportunity to explore Tolkien’s richly imagined 
world, face uncertainties and danger, and put your abilities 
to the test. The structure of journeys in The One Ring are 
perfect for Strider Mode adventures, because they tend to 
introduce encounters and obstacles organically, and offer a 
clear objective for your character.
Journeys for a lone Player- hero are resolved mostly as 
described in The One Ring core rulebook (page 108), with a 
few changes as detailed below. Player- heroes also have access 
to the Strider Distinctive Feature (page 5).
WHEn to uSE tHE JournEY ruLES
As described in The One Ring core rulebook (page 109), the 
rules for journey resolution should be used when travelling 
to a specific destination across dangerous lands. If there is 
enough uncertainty or danger to warrant a skill test, but the 
journey is not worthy of the full journey rules, you can see 
how you fare with a trAVEL  roll. For mundane travel within 
safe territory, or when returning home along the same path, 
the fate of your journey can be resolved without any rolls.
SEttInG oFF Into tHE unKnoWn
When playing The One Ring as part of a Company with a Lore-
master, you would normally have limited knowledge of your 
destination and what lies along your path. As a solo player, 
you must balance the information needed to manage the 
journey with the viewpoint of your character.
To resolve a journey and imagine the places and people 
you encounter, use the tools The One Ring provides for Lore-
masters, including maps, random tables, and region informa-
tion. In addition, you can rely on the Telling Table (page 10), 
Lore Table (page 11), and other tables provided in this sup-
plement to help bridge the gap between your knowledge as a 
character and that which a Lore master would normally provide.
If your Player- hero is particularly well travelled and experi-
enced, there will be more overlap of the information needed 
to manage the journey with your character’s knowledge. If 
your Player- hero is new to adventuring and unfamiliar with 
the world beyond their home, you will rely on Lore master 
tools without letting that information impact decisions from 
the perspective of your character.
JournEY roLES
Journey roles are not used in Strider Mode. Instead, your 
Player- hero must tend to all aspects of travel; you will still roll 
for journey events (see below), but those events are keyed 
directly to skills instead of roles.
BATTLING YOURSELF 
Running enemies as a Lore master against your own 
Player- hero can sometimes feel forced, but consider 
that the point of a combat is not to “win,” but rather 
to present an exciting, interesting, or important bat-
tle — something that adds to the narrative and chal-
lenges your Player- hero, regardless of the outcome.
When in doubt, follow the “rule of cool.” Make 
interesting, dynamic things happen. Stage a battle 
that would be exciting to witness. Lean on your 
favourite epic battles and action set- pieces from 
film and literature. And the Telling Table and Lore 
Table are always tools at your disposal.
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 17 =====

AdVEnturInG PHASE
17
SoLo JournEY EVEntS
To resolve journey events for a lone Player- hero, skip the 
event’s target step (page 112 of The One Ring core rulebook). 
Instead, you are always the target of the event, and the chal-
lenged ability is determined by the event’s nature.
As described on page 113 of The One Ring core rulebook, 
roll on the Journey Events Table to determine the event type.
Your current location affects this roll as follows: 
 ♦ If it is within a Border Land, make a Favoured Feat die roll.
 ♦ If it is within a Wild Land, roll one Feat die.
 ♦ If it is within a Dark Land, make an Ill- favoured Feat die roll.
The Journey Events table above is slightly modified from the 
version in the core rules to put the focus on a lone Player- hero.
Once the event type is determined, choose one of the fol-
lowing options to help envision the nature of the event and 
the challenge or opportunity your character faces. 
 ♦ Based on the result from the Solo Journey Events 
Table, imagine an incident or opportunity in a way 
that fits the current situation and surroundings. Then, 
make a test using an appropriate skill: EXPLorE , 
AWArEnESS , or HuntInG . Check the Solo Journey 
Events table for the consequences of this skill roll.
 ♦ Reveal the nature of the event using an Event Detail 
Table (see below).
EVEnt dEt AIL
To help envision the nature of an event, use an Event Detail 
table to expand on the information provided by the Solo Jour-
ney Events Table.
First, select the appropriate table for the type of event, 
and check your result by rolling one Success Die. To speed 
things along, you can roll this Success Die alongside your 
Feat Die when first rolling on the Solo Journey Events Table.
Take a moment to envision the nature of the incident or 
opportunity using the Event Detail prompt. If you need more 
information, you can use the Telling Table (page 10) or 
Lore Table (page 11) to answer questions about the event.
Once you have imagined the event and your character’s 
response, make the indicated skill roll. As described in the 
standard journey rules, if the event takes place in a hex sug-
gesting a hard terrain, lose (1d) on this roll. If the event hap-
pens along a road, gain (1d).
Finally, resolve the scene using the consequence and 
Fatigue Points gained or lost as shown in each Event Detail 
table.
EVENT DETAIL: TERRIBLE MISFORTUNE
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Dire confrontation Noteworthy Encounter
2 Rival Predator HUNTING  to avoid 
becoming the hunted
3 Violent weather EXPLORE  to find shelter
4 Hidden hazard AWARENESS  to avoid 
stumbling into danger
5 Dangerous terrain EXPLORE  to find a safer 
route
6 Stalking enemy AWARENESS  to spot the 
foul presence
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, the target 
is Wounded.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  3
SOLO JOURNEY EVENTS
FEAT DIE EVENT CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL
FATIGUE POINTS 
GAINED
Terrible Misfortune If the roll fails, you are Wounded. 3
1 Despair If the roll fails, gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). 2
2–3 Ill Choices If the roll fails, gain 1 Shadow point (Dread). 2
4–7 Mishap If the roll fails, add 1 day to the length of the journey, and gain 1 addi-
tional Fatigue.
2
8–9 Short Cut If the roll succeeds, reduce the length of the journey by 1 day. 1
10 Chance- meeting If the roll succeeds, no Fatigue is gained, and you may improvise an 
encounter favouring your Player- hero.
1
Joyful Sight If the roll succeeds regain 1 Hope. —
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 18 =====

STRIDER MODE
18
EVENT DETAIL: DESPAIR
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Servants of the Enemy Noteworthy Encounter
2 Torrential weather EXPLORE  to find the 
least exposed path
3 Nightmarish presence AWARENESS  to sense 
the danger
4 Fading vigour HUNTING  to gain 
sustenance
5 Corrupted site EXPLORE  to find your 
way out
6 Grisly scene or fore-
boding portent
AWARENESS  to be 
forewarned
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, gain 2 
Shadow points (Dread).
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
EVENT DETAIL: ILL CHOICES
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Mismanaged 
provisions
HUNTING  to replenish 
stores
2 Wayward path EXPLORE  to retrace 
your steps
3 Overlooked hazard AWARENESS  to escape 
safely
4 Lost quarry HUNTING  to follow its 
tracks
5 Disorienting environs EXPLORE  to find your 
way
6 Haunting visions AWARENESS  to over -
come darkness
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, gain 
1 Shadow point (Dread).
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
EVENT DETAIL: MISHAP
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Sparse wildlife HUNTING  to forage 
what you can
2 Lost direction EXPLORE  to find your 
way
3 Obstructed path AWARENESS  to spot a 
way around
4 Elusive quarry HUNTING  to track it 
down
5 Rough terrain EXPLORE  to safely 
traverse
6 Wandering enemies AWARENESS  to sense 
their coming
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, add 1 
day to the length of the journey, and gain 1 additional 
Fatigue.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
EVENT DETAIL: SHORT CUT
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Game trail HUNTING  to traverse 
the path
2 Secluded path EXPLORE  to navigate 
the wilds
3 Helpful tracks AWARENESS  to follow 
the tracks
4 Animal guide HUNTING  to follow at a 
distance
5 Favourable weather EXPLORE  to make the 
most of it
6 Familiar waypoint AWARENESS  to recog-
nize the landmark 
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll succeeds, 
reduce the length of the journey by 1 day.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  1
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 19 =====

AdVEnturInG PHASE
19
EVENT DETAIL: CHANCE MEETING
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Lone hunter HUNTING  to trade 
stories
2 Fellow traveller EXPLORE  to learn about 
the path ahead
3 Discreet watcher AWARENESS  to spot 
them
4 Noble beast HUNTING  to commune
5 Secluded encampment EXPLORE  to find your 
way off the beaten 
path
6 Auspicious gathering Noteworthy Encounter
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll succeeds, no 
Fatigue is gained, and you may envision a favourable 
encounter.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  1
EVENT DETAIL: JOYFUL SIGHT
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Majestic creatures HUNTING  to observe 
without startling them
2 Inspiring vista EXPLORE  to reach a 
vantage point
3 Benevolent being AWARENESS  to sense 
their presence
4 Abundant foraging HUNTING  to replenish 
your rations
5 Ancient monument AWARENESS  to recog-
nize its significance
6 Peaceful sanctuary Noteworthy Encounter
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll succeeds, 
regain 1 Hope.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  —
notEWortHY EncountErS
A Noteworthy Encounter result on an Event Detail table indi -
cates an event which should not be resolved with a single 
skill roll. Instead, give this event additional focus by treat -
ing it as an extended encounter or scene. This scene might 
incorporate skill rolls, combat, a council, or a Skill Endeav -
our as appropriate. 
You can also choose to translate any of the detailed event 
results into a Noteworthy Encounter instead of using a single 
skill test. In this way, you give a specific challenge or opportu-
nity more focus if it is interesting to you or especially relevant 
to your Player- hero or their quests. Overcoming a significant 
challenge as part of a Noteworthy Event can then provide 
experience as a Player- hero milestone (page 7).
rESoLVInG EVEntS 
For A  notEWortHY EncountEr
For a noteworthy encounter which is not decided using a sin-
gle skill roll, you still need to determine the overall outcome 
when applying the consequences for your journey event. To 
do so, decide if the event was ultimately favourable for your 
character.
 ♦ If you managed to overcome a challenge or had an 
overall positive event, treat it as a successful skill roll.
 ♦ If you failed to overcome a challenge, or faced severe 
hardship or complications, use the failed result.
MAKInG JournEYS coME ALIVE
For a solo Player- hero, there may be a tendency to move 
through the journey sequence without giving focus to the 
ongoing narrative. Avoid this by taking the time to plan your 
navigation as your character would, with the limited infor -
mation available to them. Then, after each marching test 
or event, imagine the details of the adventure. What is the 
weather? What is the nature of the terrain and path? What 
do you see or encounter? Where do you make camp and 
how do those surroundings inspire you or put you on edge?
Use the maps, area descriptions, and tables provided in 
The One Ring core rulebook and supplements to help reveal 
the nature of your surroundings. If you have a specific ques-
tion, use the Telling Table (page 10). If you want inspiration 
for the nature of an encounter or your surroundings, use the 
Lore Table (page 11).
JournEYS In cooPErA tIVE PLAY 
When playing cooperatively without a Lore master, a small 
Company of two Player- heroes can use the Strider Mode ver-
sion of the journey rules described in this supplement. You 
will not select roles, but should each describe your focus 
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 20 =====

STRIDER MODE
20
during the journey and resolve events accordingly. Take care 
to balance the focus of the events across both Player- heroes. 
If you are unsure which Player- hero is the target of an event, 
make a random roll to decide.
A larger Company of three or more Player- heroes should 
use the journey roles and sequence as detailed in The One 
Ring core rulebook. This includes assigning journey roles.
In either case, use the original version of the Journey 
Events Table when playing cooperatively (page 112 of The 
One Ring core rulebook) to properly include the Company 
in the consequences of an event. As with solo play, you can 
use the Event Detail tables for more insight into the nature 
of an event.
Fellowship Phase
The Fellowship Phase is a player- driven segment of the game 
where a Player- hero visits a safe haven to reflect on their 
adventures, rest and recover, and undertake personal projects.
The structure of the Fellowship Phase, as described on 
pages 118–120 of The One Ring core rulebook, is unchanged 
for solo players. You can set the duration and location of the 
Fellowship Phase as appropriate to your current situation, 
with a longer break for Yule approximately once every three 
Fellowship Phases. You will perform updates to spend accu-
mulated Experience Points gained through milestones, and 
select one or more Undertakings.
Take the time to imagine your Player- hero’s interactions 
and activities during the Fellowship Phase. For the solo adven-
turer, this is a welcome opportunity to bask in the warm glow 
of community before setting off alone once again into the 
wilds. Much of what defines the story of your character is how 
they relate to others, and what personal goals they pursue 
with the comfort of safety and time.
SPIRITUAL RECOVERY  
FOR SOLO PLAYER-  HEROES
As detailed on page 119 of The One Ring core 
rulebook, the Lore master would normally deter -
mine the number of Shadow points to remove 
during the Fellowship Phase. As a solo player, 
you instead decide how many Shadow points to 
remove based on how your actions have impacted 
the fight against the encroaching Shadow.
 ♦ If your actions have at least marginally 
interfered with the return of the Shadow, 
recover 1 Shadow point;
 ♦ If your deeds have actively hindered or 
damaged the Enemy, remove 2 Shadow 
points;
 ♦ If you have committed feats that would 
gain the attention of the Dark Lord himself, 
or at least one of his major servants, remove 
3 Shadow points
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 21 =====

APPEndIX: coLLEctEd tABLES
21
Appendix: Collected Tables
EXPERIENCE MILESTONES
MILESTONE REWARD
Accept a mission from a patron 1 Adventure Point
Achieve a notable personal goal 1 Adventure Point 
and 1 Skill Point
Complete a patron’s mission 1 Adventure Point 
and 1 Skill Point
Complete a meaningful journey 2 Skill Points
Face a Noteworthy Encounter during 
a journey
1 Skill Point
Reveal a significant location or 
discovery
1 Adventure Point
Overcome a tricky obstacle 1 Skill point
Participate in a Council 1 Skill Point
Survive a dangerous combat 1 Adventure Point
Face a Revelation Episode 1 Adventure Point
FORTUNE TABLE 
FEAT DIE RESULT
The Eye of the Enemy focuses elsewhere. 
Decrease Eye Awareness by 1.
1 You may bypass a threat without attracting notice
2 You gain the attention of a potential ally
3 An enemy inadvertently reveals their position
4 You gain favoured ground
5 Enemies run afoul of danger
6 You locate or learn of a useful item
7 Your success instils new hope or renewed 
resolve
8 You find a moment of comfort or safety
9 You learn or realize something which gives 
helpful insight into your mission
10 You encounter an opportunity suited to your 
nature or abilities
An unexpected ally appears or sends aid
ILL-  FORTUNE TABLE
FEAT DIE RESULT
Your actions catch the Eye of the Enemy. 
Increase Eye Awareness by 2.
1 You draw unwanted attention
2 Your actions are observed by someone of 
ill- intent
3 Unexpected enemies emerge or are sighted
4 You are hindered by difficult terrain or an unfa-
vourable environment
5 You find yourself ill- equipped for the 
circumstances
6 A favoured weapon or item is lost, broken, or 
sacrificed
7 You are plagued by troubling visions or 
thoughts
8 An old injury or stress resurfaces
9 You learn or realize something which adds a 
new complication to your mission
10 You face a test which is contrary to your nature 
or abilities
An ally becomes a hindrance or liability
TELLING TABLE
CHANCE
ROLL A FEAT DIE.  
THE ANSWER IS YES  IF YOU ROLL...
Certain 1 or greater
Likely 4 or greater
Middling 6 or greater
Doubtful 8 or greater
Unthinkable 10
 : Always yes, with an extreme result or twist
  : Always no, with an extreme result or twist
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 22 =====

STRIDER MODE
22
THE LORE TABLE
FEAT DIE: 
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Abandon Corrupted Curse
2 Attack Cruel Despair
3 Betray Deceptive Enemy
4 Corrupt Fell Fear
5 Defeat Ruined Shadow
6 Weaken Treacherous War
FEAT DIE: 
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Believe Flourishing Courage
2 Bolster Beautiful Duty
3 Defend Good Fellowship
4 Forgive Kind Hope
5 Resist Gentle Love
6 Strengthen Wondrous Peace
FEAT DIE: 1
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Aid Active Battle
2 Arrive Ancient Border
3 Await Bold Burden
4 Breach Bright Council
5 Break Broken Court
6 Capture Cheerless Creature
FEAT DIE: 2
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Change Cold Darkness
2 Chase Concealed Death
3 Command Dangerous Defence
4 Control Dark Depths
5 Create Dead Doubt
6 Defy Defended Dreams
FEAT DIE: 3
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Demand Desolate Fate
2 Discover Destroyed Fire
3 Disguise Dreadful Folk
4 Endure Empty Followers
5 Escape Evil Greed
6 Evade Faded Haven
FEAT DIE: 4
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Explore Far- reaching History
2 Find Fierce Honour
3 Focus Foreboding Journey
4 Gather Forgotten Kindred
5 Guard Fragile Knowledge
6 Guide Ghastly Land
FEAT DIE: 5
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Hide Gloomy Leader
2 Hinder Growing Legend
3 Hoard Hidden Life
4 Hold Ill- fated Light
5 Hunt Impenetrable Luck
6 Journey inspiring Memory
FEAT DIE: 6
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Lead Isolated Message
2 Learn Lofty Might
3 Leave Lost Nature
4 Lose Menacing Pain
5 Mourn Mighty Path
6 Move Mysterious Patron
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 23 =====

APPEndIX: coLLEctEd tABLES
23
FEAT DIE: 7
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Persist Noble Peril
2 Preserve Obstructed Plan
3 Prevent Old Power
4 Refuse Ominous Prophecy
5 Reject Open Quest
6 Remove Peaceful Refuge
FEAT DIE: 8
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Replenish Restored Riddle
2 Restore Sheltered Ruins
3 Scheme Silent Rumour
4 Search Simple Secret
5 Seize Small Skill
6 Share Sombre Song
FEAT DIE: 9
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Slay Stony Story
2 Steal Stout Strength
3 Summon Stricken Time
4 Surrender Stubborn Tool
5 Surround Twisted Treasure
6 Threaten Unnatural Trust
FEAT DIE: 10
SUCCESS 
DIE ACTION ASPECT FOCUS
1 Transform Veiled Truth
2 Trap Vigorous Vengeance
3 Trick Weary Wealth
4 Uncover Wild Weapon
5 Uphold Wretched Wilds
6 Withstand Young Wish
SKILL SPECIAL SUCCESS TABLE
SPEND 1 SUCCESS 
ICON TO… DESCRIPTION
Gain Insight You gain additional information, not necessarily related to the task at hand. For example, while helping a 
sick individual with a HEALING  roll you discover the trace of poison. Or you spot a sentry while sneaking 
into a ruin with a roll of STEALTH .
Go quietly You achieve your goal noiselessly or without otherwise attracting attention.
Make haste You complete the attempted task in a shorter time (about half the expected time).
Widen Influence You can influence more than the specific number of subjects originally targeted by the action. As a 
general rule, each Success icon spent corresponds to one additional subject or group of subjects. For 
example, following a roll of INSIGHT , you spot a second person acting suspiciously at an inn; a roll of 
ENHEARTEN  aimed to affect half a dozen individuals allows you to influence a full dozen.
Build advantage You carry forward your success to improve your position or confidence for a related task; gain (1d) on your 
next skill roll.
Cancel a Failure If playing co- op with other players, you help another Player- hero who failed within the scope of the same 
skill roll; the failed roll is considered a success.
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 24 =====

STRIDER MODE
24
RISK LEVELS
RISK LEVEL THE FAILED ROLL RESULTS IN… EXAMPLES
Standard Simple Failure,  
OR Success with Woe
Eluding the watch of a Bounder in the Shire, entertaining a crowd of inebriated 
patrons at an inn, climbing a tall tree.
Hazardous Failure with Woe Stealing mushrooms from a farm guarded by ferocious dogs, climbing atop a 
crumbling tower, or trying to swim the waters of a swift- running river.
Foolish Disaster! Picking the pockets of a hungry Troll, playing a riddle game with a Dragon, or 
bandying words with an angry Wizard.
SOLO JOURNEY EVENTS
FEAT DIE EVENT CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL
FATIGUE POINTS 
GAINED
Terrible Misfortune If the roll fails, you are Wounded. 3
1 Despair If the roll fails, gain 2 Shadow points (Dread). 2
2–3 Ill Choices If the roll fails, gain 1 Shadow point (Dread). 2
4–7 Mishap If the roll fails, add 1 day to the length of the journey, and gain 1 addi-
tional Fatigue.
2
8–9 Short Cut If the roll succeeds, reduce the length of the journey by 1 day. 1
10 Chance- meeting If the roll succeeds, no Fatigue is gained, and you may improvise an 
encounter favouring your Player- hero.
1
Joyful Sight If the roll succeeds regain 1 Hope. —
EVENT DETAIL: TERRIBLE MISFORTUNE
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Dire confrontation Noteworthy Encounter
2 Rival Predator HUNTING  to avoid 
becoming the hunted
3 Violent weather EXPLORE  to find shelter
4 Hidden hazard AWARENESS  to avoid 
stumbling into danger
5 Dangerous terrain EXPLORE  to find a safer 
route
6 Stalking enemy AWARENESS  to spot the 
foul presence
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, the target 
is Wounded.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  3
EVENT DETAIL: DESPAIR
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Servants of the Enemy Noteworthy Encounter
2 Torrential weather EXPLORE  to find the 
least exposed path
3 Nightmarish presence AWARENESS  to sense 
the danger
4 Fading vigour HUNTING  to gain 
sustenance
5 Corrupted site EXPLORE  to find your 
way out
6 Grisly scene or fore-
boding portent
AWARENESS  to be 
forewarned
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, gain 2 
Shadow points (Dread).
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 25 =====

APPEndIX: coLLEctEd tABLES
25
EVENT DETAIL: ILL CHOICES
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Mismanaged 
provisions
HUNTING  to replenish 
stores
2 Wayward path EXPLORE  to retrace 
your steps
3 Overlooked hazard AWARENESS  to escape 
safely
4 Lost quarry HUNTING  to follow its 
tracks
5 Disorienting environs EXPLORE  to find your 
way
6 Haunting visions AWARENESS  to over -
come darkness
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, gain 
1 Shadow point (Dread).
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
EVENT DETAIL: MISHAP
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Sparse wildlife HUNTING  to forage 
what you can
2 Lost direction EXPLORE  to find your 
way
3 Obstructed path AWARENESS  to spot a 
way around
4 Elusive quarry HUNTING  to track it 
down
5 Rough terrain EXPLORE  to safely 
traverse
6 Wandering enemies AWARENESS  to sense 
their coming
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll fails, add 1 
day to the length of the journey, and gain 1 additional 
Fatigue.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  2
EVENT DETAIL: SHORT CUT
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Game trail HUNTING  to traverse 
the path
2 Secluded path EXPLORE  to navigate 
the wilds
3 Helpful tracks AWARENESS  to follow 
the tracks
4 Animal guide HUNTING  to follow at a 
distance
5 Favourable weather EXPLORE  to make the 
most of it
6 Familiar waypoint AWARENESS  to recog-
nize the landmark 
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll succeeds, 
reduce the length of the journey by 1 day.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  1
EVENT DETAIL: CHANCE MEETING
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Lone hunter HUNTING  to trade 
stories
2 Fellow traveller EXPLORE  to learn about 
the path ahead
3 Discreet watcher AWARENESS  to spot 
them
4 Noble beast HUNTING  to commune
5 Secluded encampment EXPLORE  to find your 
way off the beaten 
path
6 Auspicious gathering Noteworthy Encounter
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll succeeds, no 
Fatigue is gained, and you may envision a favourable 
encounter.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  1
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 26 =====

STRIDER MODE
26
EVENT DETAIL: JOYFUL SIGHT
SUCCESS 
DIE EVENT OUTCOME
1 Majestic creatures HUNTING  to observe 
without startling them
2 Inspiring vista EXPLORE  to reach a 
vantage point
3 Benevolent being AWARENESS  to sense 
their presence
4 Abundant foraging HUNTING  to replenish 
your rations
5 Ancient monument AWARENESS  to recog-
nize its significance
6 Peaceful sanctuary Noteworthy Encounter
CONSEQUENCES OF THE SKILL ROLL:  If the roll succeeds, 
regain 1 Hope.
FATIGUE POINTS GAINED:  —
HUNT THRESHOLD REGION TABLE
THE REGION TRAVERSED IS A… HUNT THRESHOLD
Border Land 18
Wild Land 16
Dark Land 14
HUNT MODIFIERS TABLE
HUNT 
MODIFIER DESCRIPTION
+4 The Player- hero is protected by the blessing 
of a Wizard, or another powerful character
+2 The Player- hero is travelling under a false 
name, treading paths that are seldom trod-
den, or otherwise taking actions to be discreet 
and unobtrusive
−2 The Player- hero has gained great renown in 
the area thanks to some exceptional deed
−4 The Enemy is actively looking for the Player-  
hero, or their mission or goal is known to 
them
REVELATION EPISODE TABLE
FEAT DIE EPISODE
Internal strife or an external threat puts your 
Safe Haven in peril
1 Unexpected danger arises on the path ahead, 
forcing you to seek a new route
2 Nature is corrupted and turns against you
3 Spies of the Enemy carry word of your mission
4 Enemy minions launch an ambush or lay a trap
5 Enemy minions pick up your trail
6 An important location is overtaken by an enemy
7 An item you carry holds a curse, or is hunted by 
an enemy
8 You are tempted by something greatly desired, 
to the detriment of your mission
9 Malicious lies cause others to mistrust or 
fear you
10 Conflict brews between allies
An important ally is put in danger
PATRON QUESTS: BALIN, SON OF FUNDIN
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 Dark whispers plague a Dwarven territory. 
What nameless Shadow lurks in the wilds?
2 This broken artifact could be a potent weapon 
against the enemy. What is this item, and who 
wields the skill to reforge it?
3 The Dwarven ruins hold great secrets — and 
weapons against the Enemy. What is the nature 
of these ruins, and what treasures do they hold?
4 A powerful comrade has fallen in battle against 
the Enemy. Who are they, and what did they 
carry vital to our survival?
5 A Dwarven stronghold now lies with the Enemy. 
Who leads these foul creatures, and how have 
they defiled our sacred site?
6 A powerful lieutenant of the Enemy grows in 
power. Who is this shadowy figure, and how 
have they amassed followers?
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)


===== PAGE 27 =====

APPEndIX: coLLEctEd tABLES
27
PATRON QUESTS: BILBO BAGGINS
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 This particular delicacy is a rare treat. What is 
this precious item, and where can it be found?
2 Scout the area and make a note of significant 
landmarks to aid cartography. How has the land 
changed?
3 The roads grow dark and perilous. What vital 
missive do you carry, and to whom must it be 
delivered?
4 An ancient text confounds attempts to decipher 
it. What is the nature of this text, and who pos -
sesses the knowledge to translate it?
5 The Enemy holds a map of special significance. 
What secrets does this map hold, and why is it 
vital?
6 An artifact of great importance has resurfaced. 
What is this item, and why must we find it 
before the enemy does?
PATRON QUESTS: CIRDAN THE SHIPWRIGHT
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 Supplies wane as the Enemy draws near. What 
vital resource for the building of ships must you 
deliver?
2 An ancient enemy of the Elves has resurfaced 
and made themselves known. Who are they, 
and what grudge do they bear?
3 Hope falters in these dark days, so travel to a 
remote beacon and rekindle its flame. What 
shadowy presence seeks to prevent this?
4 Our missives fall into the hands of the Enemy. 
What fate befalls our messengers?
5 An artifact of great importance to the Elves is 
carried by a servant of the Enemy. Who is this 
creature, and why do they covet the artifact?
6 The ships of the Grey Havens are fashioned 
from sacred wood. What malady taints these 
trees?
PATRON QUESTS: GANDALF THE GREY
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 The people need hope in these dark times. 
Where is this remote settlement, and what 
good news do you bring?
2 Carry word of the Enemy’s movements to our 
trusted ally. Who is this ally, and how can they 
aid us?
3 A possible ally has made themselves known 
to us. Who is this ally, and what must we do to 
earn their trust?
4 Our vision is clouded, our path uncertain. We 
must capture a servant of the Enemy. Who are 
they, and what do they know?
5 News has reached us of a terrible weapon the 
Enemy means to bear. What is this weapon, and 
who wields it?
6 The Shadow has captured an ally. Who is this 
ally, and where are they imprisoned?
PATRON QUESTS: GILRAEN, 
DAUGHTER OF DIRHAEL
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 A Ranger has gone missing. What has become 
of them?
2 A powerful servant of the Enemy lurks nearby. 
Who are they, and why do they target our 
Rangers?
3 Enemy patrols prowl along the road, targeting 
merchants and supply wagons. Who leads these 
deadly patrols?
4 A settlement has come under the eye of the 
Shadow. Why is this place significant?
5 Monstrous servants of the Enemy encroach. 
What manner of weapon do they carry?
6 We’ve received no word from a remote Ranger 
refuge. What fate has befallen our allies?
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)

===== PAGE 28 =====

STRIDER MODE
28
PATRON QUESTS: TOM BOMBADIL 
AND LADY GOLDBERRY
SUCCESS 
DIE QUEST
1 Creatures of the wilds have come under a dark 
affliction. What is this sickness, and what rare 
ingredient holds the key to a cure?
2 A sacred spring runs black with some malady of 
the Shadow. What taints this source, and what 
manner of foul creature guards it?
3 A group of travellers seeks escort through the 
wilds. Who are they, and what is their vital 
mission?
4 The Shadow corrupts a sacred site. What is this 
place, and what foul presence now taints it?
5 A precious flower blooms for the first time in 
many years. What is this plant, and why is it so 
vital?
6 An ancient, sacred tree hosts a foul presence. 
What is this shadow, and can it be purged?
USING OTHER TABLES
The One Ring core rulebook and supplements pro -
vide a variety of region- specific tables useful for 
your Strider Mode campaigns. Use those tables to 
inspire locations, encounters, quests, and more. 
Strider, The One Ring, Middle-earth, and The Lord of the Rings and the characters, items, events, and places therein  
are trademarks or registered trademarks of the Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises (SZC)  
and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd. and their respective licensees. All rights reserved.
LEAD WRITERS
Shawn Tomkin and Matt Click
THE ONE RING™ RULES DESIGN
Francesco Nepitello and Marco Maggi
ART
Alvaro Tapia, Jan Pospíšil, Melissa Spandri,  
Luca Sotgiu, Federica Costantini
GRAPHIC DESIGN
Dan Algstrand, Christian Granath,  
Niklas Brandt
PROOFREADING
Brandon Bowling
LINE MANAGERS
Francesco Nepitello, Martin Takaichi
PROJECT MANAGER
Tomas Härenstam
BRAND MANAGER
Robert Hyde / Sophisticated Games
PLAYTESTERS
Martin Takaichi, Sofia Peralta,  
Matt Kay, Lorenzo Perassi
Mike Lee (Order #51544154)